[music]
I don't think this is a bubble.
>> The market is still going to keep
wanting some kind of proof. I would look
at it as a race to try to be in the
lead.
>> This will be a viable moment.
>> Momentum has been such a strong
strategy.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday, investors on edge. Equity
markets heading for their worst week in
7 months. Solid earnings from Nvidia
failing to put a floor under confidence
and very few signs. Officials at the
Federal Reserve are coming to the
rescue. The hawks remain defiant.
>> So, let's give you a sprinkling of what
we heard yesterday. Chicago Fed
President Austin Goulby saying inflation
seems to have stalled out and if
anything has given warnings of going the
wrong way. Cleveland Fed President Beth
Hammock raised concerns about financial
stability, saying that if you do get
this in risk-taking in financial
markets, it will prolong the downturn.
One after another lining up to signal
whether they are on the hawkish or the
dovish side or whether they're squarely
in the uncertain center [music] of the
FOMC.
>> The biggest one-day reversal on the S&P
500 going back to the tariff turmoil of
April this year. The company story is
okay. We saw that with the earnings of
Nvidia. The stock story is not okay.
[music] The way this market has reacted
to incoming information has shifted over
the last few months. We saw it with
Palanteer, decent numbers, poor stock
market reaction. We saw it with Nvidia
in a more vicious way in yesterday's
session.
>> So there is a narrative you can paint
and you can paint [music] about 16. You
can choose your own because nobody can
really coales around one in particular
that there is a fear that valuations
have just gotten ahead of where all of
the AI hopes and dreams can go without
significant [music] debt investment
which is making people queasy. It's a
reason why you haven't had the buy the
dip kind of [music] feeling. Open AI is
causing a lot of ajida and we're seeing
that across the board. Anyone who's
connected to open [music] AI then there
is another feeling which is essentially
positioning has gotten to a place where
hands are very weak and that's what I
think a lot of people are pointing to
particularly with the crypto selloff. I
know we don't talk about crypto that
much but I think the sell-off in Bitcoin
30% decline since the recent high that's
a lot of money going out and a lot of
questions around what kind of force
selling there might happen.
>> Without a doubt one informs the other.
One informs [music] the other. again
this morning in the pre-market. Nvidia a
little bit softer. That stock is down by
1.5%. We'll track [music] that for you
throughout this morning. So, what does
the White House want? What does the
Treasury Secretary want? The White House
and the Treasury Secretary want the
obvious. They want lower interest
[music] rates.
>> The Treasury Secretary made that point
again last night speaking on Fox News
saying we should finish the current
cutting [music] cycle and the Federal
Reserves needs to continue cutting
interest rates. At the same time, this
is a difficult line for them to walk cuz
they also [music] want to make sure they
are touting that they think the economy
is on good footing. What was interesting
yesterday, I [music] thought, was Vice
President JD Vance telling the American
people, especially after a poll this
week from Fox News shows that they are
underwater when it comes to their
handling of the economy. [music]
Said, "Have patience with us. Let our
policy start to infiltrate through the
economy."
>> The problem right now is the calendar.
The calendar's [music] against all of
this. the push to get lower interest
rates. Later on this morning, 8:30
Eastern time, [music] we'll catch up
with a major dove on the FOMC. Governor
Steven Myin 8:30 on Bloomberg
Surveillance. He's pushing for rate
cuts. How do you persuade the rest of
the committee, [music] a divided FOMC to
come with you when you're not going to
have the data in hand and you've got to
wait another week for it.
>> There is this theoretical argument
that's clearly taking place on [music]
the FOMC. What is the neutral rate? What
is the rate at which you're not uh
necessarily helping or hurting
accelerate the [music] economy or
decelerate the economy right now? That
is the ultimate note of disagreement
alongside what the Fed's role is [music]
trying to bridge in in trying to bridge
the gap between people at the upper end
of the income sphere and people at the
lower income. These are the existential
philosophical debates that are being had
at the OFOMC. And I wonder what data
they're going to point to because
frankly it's a choose your own adventure
as you've been saying cherry-picking
season on Wall Street. When you say the
philosophical debates, I have to say
Anna Pollson [music] yesterday, candy
sales over Halloween. For her, that's an
example of how stretched some families
are. Smaller bags of candy with fewer
[music] items sold better than larger
bags that offered greater value per
unit. And at the same time, demand
[music] for high-end chocolate is very,
very strong. It's all in the candy
allegedly.
>> Check out the market this morning.
Equities just about unchanged on the
[music] S&P 500. Messy, vicious 24
hours. Coming up on the program, we'll
catch up with Cameron [music] Dawson of
New Edge Wealth with stocks on track for
their worst week since April. AJ
Rajadaka of Barclays on the biggest risk
facing the economy and Claudia S of New
Century Advisers on the path ahead for a
divided Fed. We begin this hour with
futures lower after AI fears drag down
stocks to two-month lows. Cameron Dawson
of New Edge Wealth writing, "We see this
as a valuation and positioning
recalibration, not a growth scare, which
implies a shorter and shallower
correction." Cameron joins us now for
more. Cameron, good morning.
>> Good morning. How do you draw a
distinction between one and the other?
>> Yeah. So, what we think about is when
you have a growth scare, it tends to
lead to a deeper, more protracted
correction. You're cutting EPS
estimates. You're cutting GDP estimates.
There's a lot of positioning to shake
out. But at this time, we're not seeing
signs that EPS or GDP estimates
necessarily need to get cut for 2026. We
think that they are very fully
calibrated at this time. So we don't see
a lot of upside to them which suggests
to us that this correction could
continue but it doesn't necessarily mean
that we go into something that's greater
than the 10% kind of draw down that you
would see in a deeper correction.
>> What do you think we need to see in the
coming weeks, the coming month to put a
floor under sentiment.
>> So we think that we need to see a little
bit of the weaker hand shaken out. What
we saw with retail investors is a big
35% jump in FINRA margin loan balances
over the course of the last 6 months.
This suggests that there was just a ton
of risk-taking that happened really over
the last two months. September and
October, we've been calling it silly
season. There was no reason for stocks
to rally 30, 40, 50% in just 2 months
alone. So, a lot of this is just a
recalibration out of that silly season
into more rationality, but it doesn't
suggest that maybe today is the the
ultimate low. We still think that we
could see some volatility.
>> Are you buying?
>> For some accounts, yes. Look, at the end
of the day, we we always keep a book
next to our desk, which is Walter
Demers, when it comes time to buy, you
won't want to. Which just means that the
narrative will suggest that you should
stay on the sidelines of the market. Of
course, it's scary. But we do know that
forward returns get better as markets
correct. And if we do see a correction
down to, let's say, the 200 day moving
average, the narratives will get even
scarier. But that's an even greater
opportunity to be able to put capital to
work because at that point, you've seen
valuations come into a little bit more
of a reasonable territory. as well as
the fact that positioning likely would
get a lot lighter.
>> When you take a step back, it feels like
this is what happens when you uh invite
bond investors to the party that there
uh valuations were flying high and doing
great and these companies were buying
everything on cash and then all of a
sudden you had a $200 billion in bond
gluts and bond sales largely tied to
tech and all of a sudden everyone got
depressed because suddenly it became re
became a reality. You have to pay for
this. Companies are having trouble
paying for the hopes and dreams that
they have out forward. How much is that
going to be a theme and that will temper
any rallies going forward?
>> It's one thing to spend your own money.
It's a very different thing to spend
somebody else's because when you're
spending your own money, you get the
benefit of the doubt and the patience of
we will see a return on this investment
over a longer period of time. But as
soon as you start spending other
people's money, there needs to be a
quicker return on that investment. And
we've been surprised at how much bond
investors were willing to step into some
of these very long-term deals. so much
demand for these for these bonds even as
you were starting to see things like CDS
and credit spreads start to widen out.
So we think that that difference of
spending other people's money has
completely changed the narrative around
the AI investment story.
>> So you think that potentially we had the
Santa rally in September October. What
does this do for everyone's year-end
targets for the S&P 500? Well, isn't it
interesting that bulls were clamoring to
oneup each other to raise the target
starting to say that EPS estimates were
too low for 2026 and we simply just
don't see it. You already had an
acceleration in revenue growth that was
contemplated in 26 earnings as well as
150 basis points of margin expansion.
So, high bars just simply create higher
potential for volatility, which is why
we think that we're seeing this. The
best news for this market though is that
there are still cohorts of institutional
investors that are underweight or
neutral this market. You have
discretionary investors that are still
sitting mostly on the sidelines which
means that if you do start to see more
of this volatility, it would be a good
buying opportunity for this smart smart
money. But the contrast to that is
households are still very much all into
this market. They've been a big source
of the volume in the trading this year.
So that's probably what we're starting
to see shaken out at this time. Do you
want a good story to tell for 26? I
think it sounds like this. Tax refunds
in America in early next year, stimulus
coming out of Japan, China reportedly,
the team at Bloomberg talking about
property stimulus emerging in China as
well. Put it all together. Is that a
better backdrop for global growth in the
next 12 months?
>> This is what a lot of the bulls are
betting on and this is a reason why the
choppiness is in a place that a lot of
people are saying it's a good time to
buy. The bare case to that is that the
AI jitters continue as bond sales do
continue and there is a deflation of the
AI dream that has powered so much of the
dynamism this year and that I think is
the thing that people are really worried
about. What if all that fiscal stimulus
doesn't offset the sort of reality check
that you're seeing in tech?
>> Forgive me for talking about
fundamentals because I do wonder how
divorced this market is from any of the
growth story developing anywhere at this
point. Well, look, at the end of the
day, we've seen 12-month Ford earnings
estimates continue to make new highs and
continue to get revised higher. And I
think the question we have to ask is how
much of those higher earnings revisions
was banking on the idea of this capex
story within AI continuing. When
everybody was talking yesterday when
Nvidia was up saying everything's fine
in AI, the capex story is intact. We we
thought that that was a little bit
misleading because the question about AI
was not whether or not they were
spending money. The question was, are
they spending money in the right places
and will they return any investment or
have any return on that money? And so
having good Nvidia numbers doesn't
necessarily suggest that you're going to
see good earnings and and margins coming
out of those people spending on it.
>> What John was mentioning though is
really important and this potentially
could be the playbook for the first half
of next year. Do you think there could
be a phenomenon where actually the index
level goes down because AI is not
driving and you do see a broadening out
a sense that the rest of the economy is
doing better? It's not AI's pain AI's
gain and everybody else is pain. It's AI
pain while everybody else gains.
>> The lesson we learned from the tech
bubble and the bursting of it is that
initially everything goes down and then
you start seeing divergences. Meaning
that when you are reducing overall
equity exposure because the largest
weights in the index are moving lower,
you will see the broader index turn
down, but then you start to see
divergences begin to emerge. But the
initial part is broad pain and then you
start to see certain things separate
from the pack.
>> Cam, you're going to stick with us.
Cameron Dawson there of New Edge Wealth.
Coming up on the program, Governor Myron
at 8:30 Eastern time. Don't miss that
conversation regarding the Federal
Reserve and a big decision on December
10th. For now, let's get you an update
on news worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Is Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Good morning. President Donald
Trump meeting with New York City [music]
Mayor elect Zoran Mandani at the White
House today. The president posting on
social media earlier this week. The
communist mayor of New York City asked
for a meeting. [music] A Mandani
spokesperson saying the mayor and
president would discuss public safety,
economic security, and Mandani's
affordability agenda.
US banks shouting a $20 billion bailout
plan for Argentina. The Wall Street
Journal reporting that JP Morgan, Bank
of America, and City Group are instead
[music]
planning to lend the country about $5
billion through a repo facility where
Argentina would exchange a portfolio of
investments [music]
for dollars from the banks.
A bidding war underway for Warner
Brothers Discovery. Netflix, [music]
Comcast, and Paramount Skyans all
submitting offers for the company.
Comcast and Netflix are most interested
in the film and TV library, while
Paramount [music] is willing to buy the
whole company, including cable channels
such as CNN and TNT. And that's your
Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey, Vonyie. Thank you. More from Vonyie
later [music] this hour. Up next on the
program pushing for more rate cuts.
>> I think there are a lot of signals
coming from the Fed and some of some of
them are are very confusing. We don't
know where things are. We've been
cutting and we should finish the cutting
cycle. That conversation up next with
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall live from New
York City this [music] morning. Good
morning.
[music]
What a range on the S&P 500 in
yesterday's session. At the highs close
to positive 2% at the lows negative
[music] by more than 1.5 and we closed
close to those lows on the S&P 500 this
morning. We bounced by [music] not even
2/10en of 1%. The NASDAQ totally
unchanged. There's nothing convincing
about this this [music] morning. Check
out Nvidia in the pre-market. Nvidia
right now is negative again by more than
1%. Yeah, the fact that we're not seeing
a buy the dip mentality and that
yesterday you saw the biggest [music]
intraday swing going back to April after
liberation day raises questions about
where the marginal buyers are and what
is continuing to catalyze these
concerns. Is it weak hands or is this
something more fundamental either about
the debt picture or frankly something
they're not hearing from Jensen Wong
about exactly how some of the companies
can actually pay for the chips that
they're selling.
>> Nothing convincing coming from the
economic data either. So that's
unhelpful going into the [music] Fed's
meeting on December 10th. under
surveillance this morning pushing for
more rate cuts.
>> I think there are a lot of signals
coming from the Fed and some of some of
them are are very confusing. [music]
They've cut twice and they said that
they're insurance cuts. So, I would have
thought that they would want to take out
a third cut. We don't know where things
are. We've been cutting and we should
finish the cutting cycle.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
White House ramping up the pressure on
the Fed to slash interest rates with a
December rate cut in doubt after a very
mixed payroll report. Joining us now is
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall. Tyler, the
pressure really started to build this
week on the Federal Reserve.
>> Right. Exactly, John. And perhaps it's
been heightened because we heard
President Trump earlier this week tell
the Treasury Secretary Scott Besson
directly that he needs to work on Fed
Chair Jerome Powell to lower rates.
We've seen the stakes perhaps been
raised because this White House has been
playing defense when it comes to the
issue of affordability in recent weeks.
Just look at the meeting happening today
between President Trump and newly
elected New York City Mayor Mom Donnie
where the issue is expected to be front
and center. In fact, you had the
Treasury Secretary go on in that
interview to acknowledge that the
administration has been frustrated with
recent polling showing pessimism about
the economy. Part of that is that the
ongoing government shutdown had weighed
on Americans. You heard the Treasury
Secretary there talk about a uh a um a
uh insurance cut from the Fed. He went
on to talk about uh this idea that there
could be this hit to economic growth
while the government was closed. Our own
analyst at Bloomberg Economics calculate
that the anticipated hit to fourth
quarter GDP will have been 1.3
percentage points, but that the economy
will likely get that back by early next
year. But John, that just goes to the
point that of course there is this lack
of data and the calendar is looking
tricky as the BLS confirmed earlier this
week that we will not get another
comprehensive look particularly at the
labor market until after the December
meeting.
>> Tanya, things were so quiet. They hadn't
mentioned the Fed for so long. Are we
blaming Amarie for this?
>> Well, maybe because her uh question in
the Oval Office did spur President Trump
on to talk about what those potential
replacements could look like. Of course,
the Treasury Secretary, while putting
pressure on the Federal Reserve, is of
course also leading the search to
replace him. He did confirm that we are
expecting President Trump to meet with
the top three finalists by mid December.
So, as we get closer to that date, no
doubt we're going to hear more about it.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest down in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. And Marie,
there was no mention of the Fed for
ages.
>> I don't even know for weeks.
>> I don't even know why the president and
the Treasury Secretary now talking about
they have to meet these people. He
already said, "I know in my mind who I'm
going to pick, but I think he meant in
his mind. He really just wants Scott
Besson to take the job."
>> Cameron Dawson of Detail still with us
around the table. Cam, let's continue
the conversation on the Federal Reserve.
Just base case, what are you expecting
now December 10th?
>> We don't expect them to necessarily cut
just because they've been so hawkish in
their commentary. However, if we
continue to see market weakness, we
think it will be the reason why they
would deliver a cut. Because if you
wanted to justify a hold, what you did
is you looked at broad financial
conditions and you said equities are
fine, credit is fine, volatility is low.
You kind of have to throw that that out
the window if this correction continues,
which just means that it could push them
to deliver the cut in December because
then they could focus on the slowdown in
job growth. If you wanted a jumbo cut,
you'd look at things like the University
of Michigan survey. You'd look at the
Conference Board survey which are
showing or indicating that there could
be even more weakness within the labor
market. Once we get the data for October
and November, when it comes in December,
>> do you think the pressure from the White
House is counterproductive?
>> It has, I think, emboldened the hawks on
the Fed to be more loud and push back
even more and assert their independence.
So, this could be why we see the
probability of a cut in December fall so
much because of the pressure from the
White House. Do you think if the Fed
cuts rates now that it would lead to a
broad-based lowering in yields across
the curve or do you think that it will
lead to maybe the hawks in the market
pushing back against long-term yields?
>> Not necessarily. It all depends on what
economic data is doing and and this is
where context does in fact change
everything. [laughter]
>> Lovely. You're welcome back.
>> Meaning that if economic data is is
turning higher, it does suggest that the
long end of the yield curve will move
will move higher. The reason that we
haven't seen the big upward movement in
the long end after the Fed has delivered
two cuts is because economic data has
been middling. So if you're in a
resurgence kind of environment, what
everybody's expecting for the first
quarter, we would expect Fed cuts to be
concommatant with an upward movement in
the long end, which of course would
further challenge more cyclical sectors
and things like housing. So it could be
a be careful what you wish for, but it
depends on the growth backdrop.
>> What do you see in terms of the growth
backdrop? I mean, how have you
deciphered the roar shock test that has
been uh what we've saw what we've seen
recently in the data?
>> So, what we've seen since the April lows
is a movement in GDP forecast for 2026
up from about 1.3% to 1.8% today. We
think that that fully contemplates this
idea that the consumer will hold in but
not necessarily reacelerate. The big
question is do you get more fiscal
stimulus that could broad broadly help
the consumer and I think the interesting
plot twist is that if you look at fixed
private investment capital investment
that actually is turning lower in 2026.
So despite all that we're talking about
with AI investment and all of this
capex, the rate of change is slowing
down because what you're seeing is a
cresting in non-residential construction
because manufacturing investment is
slowing down because the chips act is
starting to slow down in its
contribution to growth.
>> When you talk about the consumer, the
White House is weighing whether or not
potentially work with Congress they can
get stimulus checks of $2,000. Do you
think that'll actually help the consumer
or will it just feed inflation?
>> It likely will just feed inflation. It
does of course depend on the supply side
of things. One of the reasons why checks
were so inflationary back during the
COVID era is because you were giving
people money and then there was supply
chain issues, then they didn't have
anywhere to spend it. But I think the
real challenge you have is that if you
start cutting the front end of the
curve, you start giving checks, blowing
out the deficit even further, you do get
this dynamic where the back end of the
curve likely picks up. We do know that
the Fed or the Treasury is the one that
wants these cuts so badly. We have one
over $1 trillion in interest expenses.
you have $9 trillion of debt that has to
be refinanced next year and over 20% of
the Treasury debt outstanding is in
bills. So, nobody wants interest rate
cuts more than Treasury does. But the
question is, can they explicitly express
that in in terms of Treasury financing
versus just saying we're being too tight
because of the economy?
>> If they don't cut in December, but they
start cutting again next year, would it
make a whole lot of difference?
>> No. And we think that that we're going
to get those cuts because we think that
you have to think of this as old Fed has
much more balance between inflation and
employment. New Fed is going to 3%. They
want to get to that 3%. That's what
they've determined is neutral. I think
the big question is whoever gets
nominated to the Fed, what is their view
of neutral? Is it deeper than 3%.
>> Who do you think is going to be
nominated?
>> Waller. It's the it's the most PC choice
>> for us.
>> Is that what you think is PC? When the
president says, "I'm going to be
politically correct." Who do you think
he means?
>> Waller,
>> you think he means Waller, too?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, good.
>> Because I think there's a distinction to
make there for some people at least. A
lot of people believe that's what the
market thinks politically correct is,
but to him maybe is Kevin Hasset. And I
keep bringing this up. If it's someone
very close to the president, if it's not
Governor Waller, if it is Kevin Hasset,
do you change your view on how the
market trades in terms of market-based
assumptions on inflation? your view on
how treasuries might trade off the back
of that.
>> The most fascinating thing is that
10-year break evens on inflation are at
2.24% right now.
>> Solid.
>> The 10-year Treasury market believes
that the Fed will be successful at
getting inflation back to its its
long-term target. The question is, is
that a reasonable assumption by the
Treasury market?
>> Do you think it is?
>> No, not right now. I think that there's
probably upside to those inflation break
even expectations mostly because there's
absolutely zero desire to pull deficits
in. You're talking about increasing
deficits even further with direct
checks. And so I think that the bias is
upward on those inflation expectations.
But again, that has to be in the context
of what's happening with growth. If
growth really does fall off a cliff,
inflation expectations are well
calibrated
>> at this point, given the fact you I'm
glad that you mentioned the deficit that
there have been so many different
initiatives to try to lower costs for
American families in response to some of
these polls and the mid midterm
elections. How much do you expect that
to also drive the deficit into a deeper
place more significantly potential roll
backs of certain tariffs etc? Yeah, I
that's the interesting thing about the
tariffs is that it actually has been
bond market positive because it has
helped assuage some of these issues
where the deficit was swelling and make
it so that they haven't had to increase
treasury issuance as much. So if you get
this push back on tariffs where heaven
forbid the money has to be returned,
which we don't think it will be, but if
you get this push back on tariffs, does
it make the deficits look even worse?
which then of course puts even more
pressure to cut at the front end because
you have that over $1 trillion of
interest expense.
>> Cam, it's good to see you. Thanks for
dropping by. Lots to think about going
into 26. Cameron Dawson of New Edge
Wealth. Still lots to play for through
25 into year end. Still got to figure
out the outcome of that Supreme Court
hearing on the president's tariffs.
>> Absolutely. The Supreme Court could
strike down AIPA. It's the blunt
instrument this administration has used
for these reciprocal tariffs. It's
bringing in billions of dollars. The
issue individuals will tell you is even
if the AIPA gets struck down, the
administration will find other ways to
enact tariffs. The problem is you
brought up the timeline. Can this all be
done in time to level out for the
economy before the midterm elections?
>> What happened to that smooth sailing
meltup riskreward into year-end story?
What happened to that
>> record scratch? I mean, on one hand, you
could say on one hand, you could say
you've got amazing opportunity to get in
at a lower level to really enjoy that
Santa Claus rally into the end of the
year. Or you could say, "Wait a second.
The debt folks came to the party and
they tend to be, you know, party party
winners as you can tell uh and really
lift the spirits of everyone because
they say, "Really? How are you going to
pay for this?"
>> Slam the slam the brakes on this rally.
We're positive by a tenth of 1% on the
S&P 500 struggling to bounce. [music] Up
next, AJ Rajadaka of Barclays on the
biggest risk facing the economy in
[music] 26. Plus, Danny has your morning
mover as shares of the gap higher on the
back of stronger than expected results.
That [music] stock up by 4.5%.
[music]
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Check it out. Futures just
about unchanged on the S&P 500. Big one
day reversal in yesterday's session. The
biggest going back 7 months. We're
heading towards the worst week on the
S&P since the tariff turmoil of April.
On the NASDAQ 100, here's a stat from
the stocks team here at Bloomberg
[music] News. The S&P 500 is heading
towards its worst November since [music]
'08. On the NASDAQ 100, we have not had
a 3-week losing streak. We haven't had a
3-we losing streak since March. It's
been a long, long time. The NASDAQ so
far this month is down by 7%. It's
[music] been a brutal November.
>> Yeah. And breaking through all
technicals and coming with a meltdown of
all momentum trades, but taking
everything with it. And it raises this
question, is this a fundamental shift or
is this an incredible buying
opportunity? And ultimately, that is
going to be the debate. I keep going
back to the fact that Bitcoin and just
cryptocurrencies in general have [music]
lost a trillion dollars of value in just
a couple of weeks. And it gives you a
sense of how fast things are moving and
how much uh market capitalization is
[music] just being destroyed.
>> Loving the clicks just adds something,
you know,
>> urgency. Perfect.
>> 6:30.
>> Well, I mean, crypto, it's non-stop,
>> you know, it's just not happening.
>> 5 p.m. somewhere.
>> There you go. Just like that yesterday,
things [music] turned around for Nvidia
and the losses continue so far this
morning in the pre-market. Nvidia
[music] down once again negative by
1.7%.
Let's get you some single name stock
level action with your morning movers.
Here's Danny with [music] more. Hey
Danny. Hey John. Some earnings to go
through this morning. In it, those
shares are up nearly 3%. They reported
yesterday and they beat on all fronts.
They also signaled a lot of confidence
around their AI product specifically in
their QuickBooks. They said that from
small businesses. They launched this
thing in July. They've had a lot of
uptick. Apparently, it [music] helps
save 12 hours of accounting work a month
and gets you paid 5 days faster. That's
at least what they say. So, that is
making those shares attractive.
Elsewhere, Gap also reporting earnings.
A retailer that saw positivity. In fact,
so much so that they have raised their
guidance behind some of the [music]
success of Gap, of Old Navy, of all
their uh different brands was the fact
that they've done a lot of celebrities,
uh a lot of collaborations that's
helping lift shares up 4 and a.5%.
[music]
Elsewhere, the bids have apparently come
in for Warner Brothers [music]
Discovery. Those shares were higher by
more than 1%. Now they're just up 8/10en
of 1%. The good news for them is
everyone is still in this process
process. It is Comcast. It is Netflix.
The two of them want the film and TV
library and it's Paramount as well who's
willing to buy the whole company. So
those shares again up 8/10en of a
percent. John
>> story to track going into year end.
Danny, thanks for that. Appreciate it.
On our radar this morning, what about
top stories? President Trump set to meet
the New York City Mayor Alex Madami at
the White House later on today is the
first meeting between the two leaders
following months of contentious
exchanges. Elsewhere, divisions of the
Federal Reserve widening after Governor
Michael Bar expressed caution over
additional rate cuts. Bar joined by the
likes of Beth Hammock, Austin Gorsby,
while officials like Wall Bowman, Steven
Min calling for multiple rate cuts. And
finally, SoftBank shares plunging more
than 10% as the tech fueled pullback
weighs on global stocks. the Japanese
firm sliding despite offloading all of
its shares of Nvidia in a signal the AI
fears might be more broadly based
>> well and it comes the soft bank starts
to invest more heavily in an open AI
venture so they are going into more
speculative uh wagers in the AI world
which is exactly what they are sensibly
intending to do right the whole idea
isn't necessarily to get out of Nvidia
because they think it's the top it's to
get into even more risk because maybe
this is going to broaden out it raises
this issue again who are the most
exposed players here and especially with
the circularity of the industry, the
fact that so many different entities are
increasingly dependent on one another.
If one falls, how much is the domino
effect going to really ripple through
the entire ecosystem?
>> Keep going back to the numbers from
Nvidia were pretty good. The company
story is fine. The stock story is the
problem, but at a company level, they're
putting up tremendous numbers even
without the exposure to China. And there
is a hint, you were down in Washington,
there's a hint that maybe the door is
opened a little bit more widely for them
to sell to the rest of the world. It
definitely is opening to sell to the
rest of the world. There's even
conversations about if China comes back
into play. Maybe when Nvidia starts to
build a new chip. Blackwell won't be the
most advanced. You can go to China and
they start selling those to China. But
for sure, you're going to have the
Middle East start to fill some of that
gap. And the commerce secretary
basically gave the green light for those
chips to go to the United Arab Emirates
as well as to Saudi Arabia.
>> You look, they're definitely banking on
international sales and sovereign sales.
I think the concern for a lot of people
is how do people pay for these chips?
Because one thing that people keep
pointing to is that the accounts
receivable basically the p the bills
that people hadn't paid to Nvidia
absolutely skyrocketed. So yes, their
profits surged 65% an astronomical
figure. I mean their numbers were
absolutely blowout. But when you start
looking at the forward trajectory of
people being able to pay for this $5
trillion company, what they are actually
asking for, that's where the questions
start.
>> Things started to get shaky. I think
radars were up around the Oracle OpenAI
deal and just how solid the foundations
were for that. That's when things
started to get shaky. Then you had the
debt issue from Oracle as well. Then
you've had the dead issues from Oracle
too in the broader market. We've seen
all the charts of CDS. I get all that.
This is the question that I've been
asking for a while. Three months ago, it
was all about the strong balance sheet
of the hyperscalers. We're built on
strong foundations. The market shifted
perception in the last few months. And I
just wonder what it would take to get
things back on track.
>> Probably profitability and use cases.
And that's what people keep pointing to.
Or maybe it's just a technical issue.
But one thing that Gloria of DA Davidson
said yesterday, OpenAI is the perfect
example of fake it till you make it.
They literally cannot pay for all the
plans that they are announcing. They
cannot make these commitments. They are
waiting for people to fill their coffers
whether it's through the debt markets or
through other hyperscalers or other tech
companies. So, if you start pointing out
the fake it till you make it and I got
to pay foot your bill again, when the
debt investors come to your party, it
might be time to close up shop.
>> That interview with Sam Alman didn't
help.
>> You keep going back to that.
>> I know. I always go back to it because
it was so awkward. It was such a
straightforward question. Your revenues
are X, your spending intentions are Y.
How does one inform the other? What's
this going to look like in years to
come? And it was like, if you don't like
it, sell the stock. I'm sorry, but come
on, give me a break. If you had a
central banker with the weight of the
markets on their shoulders come out and
behave like that in a news conference,
what do you think the market would do?
And I think there's a degree of
responsibility for a CEO in that
position with the weight of the market
on his shoulders to come up with a
better answer than if you don't like it,
sound a stock
>> that works when you're talking to stock
investors and you're almost a sort of
rockstar status in a world. It doesn't
work when you're talking to debt
investors because they ultimately are
going to look at the dollars and cents
and say, "Hold up a second. Not
working."
>> But also, he got frustrated in that
interview. It wasn't just if you don't
like it, sell it. He said enough.
Clearly, the frustration was building
because this isn't the first time he's
hearing about these concerns.
>> The NASDAQ 100 futures down this morning
by 210 of 1%. Sticking with tech,
nervousness around the AI trade leading
to the biggest one-day stock market
reversal we've seen in 7 months. AJ
Rajaka, a global chairman of research at
Barclay's writing this. The big risk for
the US and thereby the world economy is
if the AI narrative hits a wall in 26.
We think fears of a collapse in the AI
narrative are overdone. AJ joins us now
for more. AJ, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Are we going to hit a wall? And if you
don't think we are, why aren't we?
>> We are not hitting a wall. I I I I hear
everything that all of you guys said
before, but I hear accounts receivable
argument with Nvidia. These things
happen in a hyperrowth capex cycle. They
just tend to, you know, 33 billion in
accounts receivable is not the end of
the world for a $5 trillion company.
every single hyperscaler that you talk
to, forget the open AIs of the world for
now, just look at the listed companies,
we came through a phenomenal learning
cycle. You know, John, you'll have
people telling you, well, the S&P is
trading at a 20-year high on the equity
multiple. What they don't tell you is
that margins are at a 25-y year high.
They're at 14.8%. And the reason is
almost exclusively big tech where
earnings are just killing it. It's not
just one company, it's a bunch of
companies altogether. And every single
listed company, unless they are all
lying, unless Musk and Ellison and Meta
and Google are all lying, saying they
cannot keep up with demand for compute
and inference over and over and over, we
are not hitting a wall.
>> I hear you. The earnings are great.
There's nothing wrong with the earnings.
I've seen them, too. We've all seen the
margins. Fantastic. Great story.
>> The way the stocks be behaving has
changed. And you've got to respect the
market. You have.
>> We repeat this all the time on this
program. You can learn something from
the information and something from how
the market responds to that very
information. What are you learning from
how the market's responding to it?
>> How many weak hands there were? Number
one. Number two is how much of sentiment
was driven by two other factors. One is
I think Bitcoin even though a $2
trillion asset class should not drive a
$75 trillion asset class. Sometimes
things tend to happen. And the third is
yesterday was a bunch of technical
levels breaking in a technical driven
selloff. you know your 100 day moving
averages break everywhere and then we
were off to the races. These things
happen you I mean April was a much
bigger deal because you seem to have
something fundamental change in global
trade and you know what why we
completely blew past that because of the
power of earnings unless you tell me
that that's gone away for the listed
names. I have a much harder time, you
know, giving you a clean argument about
the OpenAss and the XAS because, like
you said, they don't make a lot of
revenues right now. But Google and Meta
and Apple, they make a lot of money.
That is not changing anytime soon.
>> AJ, do we need to reframe this that what
we're seeing is not the bursting of the
AI bubble, but it's the bursting of the
crypto bubble. This is the bursting of a
Bitcoin bubble that is infiltrating the
rest of the ecosystem. So I I won't say
who but one of the biggest holders of
Bitcoin there is told me and he's made
the argument that he said I've given up
giving a use case for it. I I I hear you
on that the skepticism. The thing you're
missing is that there is a gigantic
layer of holders who are never going to
sell under any circumstances. There is
an inbuilt floor. Now we don't know
where that floor is. You the the the
story going around in the markets right
now is that every four to 5 years
Bitcoin tends to have before it starts
to go back up again. and we are starting
to get close to those levels. There's
speculation about strategy having to
liquidate. These are all stories and
narratives. But this is an asset that
does trade on sentiment one way or the
other. And right now the sentiment is
negative. I don't think you're going to
get to a point where 6 months from now
I'm here and Bitcoin is at 10,000. That
is not happening.
>> Well, I guess that my point is we often
talk about this as almost a vanity
project for a lot of people to see what
else can replace gold or replace the US
dollar. And there's this question of how
many speculative people can go into this
before it becomes something real. I just
wonder if we're seeing the $4.5 trillion
market cap of this market start to move
around the rest of the universe in a
more significant way that has to be
considered going forward. Uh I don't
think yet because so far we have you
know we were starting to get ICOs you
know internet coins start start to
become mainstream because they started
to get into ETFs or starting to get into
the what what do you call tradfire you
know the traditional financial markets
not enough yet so I don't think there's
enough of a flow it is true that the
triple Q's and Bitcoin move almost in
one line but they react to the same
things I don't think there is causality
from Bitcoin to to the equity markets
yet except for sentiment in short
periods of time which is one of those
periods that we find ourselves in gold
the big move really has been central
banks after the west froze Russia's FX
reserves it's not going away and the
weird thing about gold is that even with
the fact that gold is up over 100% over
the last 3 years the amount of gold
mined has not gone up almost at all you
know so supply has not rushed to fill in
demand so I think that's something that
is more structural in my mind
>> in your outlook this line stood out to
me traditional macro drivers like
monetary poly be policy will be less
important next year. Isn't this story
just heating up with the Federal
Reserve? We're going to have a new
leader in charge of the Fed.
>> So you can blame H for that because I
was doing an interview with her in
Singapore 3 hours after the Fed meeting
and the first question was on open air,
second was on meta, you know, five uh
minutes in not a single question on the
Fed right after Fed meeting. But
>> I guess kind of like today
>> that's right. But uh uh the easing cycle
for the most part I think is closer to
being done. The ECB is done. The Bank of
England is very close to being done. The
Bank of Japan might have one or two
left. That is, you know, 2025 was was a
series of cuts. As far as the Fed chair
goes, you know, the day that Governor
Cook was let go, the one thing you would
have expected August 17th, you know,
shock to the market would have been for
inflation break evens to widen. You
know, the risk is that monetary policy
is going to become too easy. inflation
should go up. Break evens actually fell.
The markets seem convinced and so far
they've been right that the institutions
will hold and I think that's probably
correct.
>> So what's going to be the driver? We had
a tremendous amount of policy
uncertainty this year. Does that
continue into 2026?
>> No, I think the driver genuinely is
going to be AI because you know everyone
focuses on AI capex. I feel comfortable
about AI capex that at least for the
next four quarters we are not taking a
step back. People forget how much wealth
effects because of AI equities propping
up the broader equity markets mattered
to consumption. Consumption is the big
daddy of of the US economy. I mean you
can't get past it. You know the we've
not created a lot of jobs this year. The
housing market is mod. We've had trade
uncertainty and the consumer has kept on
spending because household wealth has
kept going up. Peak to trough in the
NASDAQ
collapse in 2020 2000 to 2002 we fell
78%. And I'm not talking about anything
close to that, but if you get a 30%
pullback in US equities and it sticks,
we're probably going into a recession.
And that will only happen if the AI
narrative hits the wall.
>> So at the moment, you don't see the
problems in the low-inccome groups in
this country migrating up to the higher
income groups.
>> No, I I think I don't uh my story
changes completely if we are looking at
the equity markets being down 30% from
here. That that's
>> does your story change if the AI
revolution leads to severe white collar
job cuts?
>> So the weird part is historically in
expansions this is not the first time
you've had gamechanging technology right
the the the internal combustion engine I
would argue was bigger because you had
the horse and buggy for a thousand years
and then something you know completely
changed. The weird part is that if you
have an economic expansion, net job
losses, regardless of Amazon announcing
how we're going to let go of three
30,000 people, you know, things that hit
the headlines don't actually you don't
get net job losses. You get net job
losses when you get a recession and then
in the expansion that follows companies
say you know there's this technology I
can do so many more things without
people and you get what is called
jobless recovery. So I doubt that this
time is going to be different. You will
get headlines. I do think at the front
end of the job market there is a problem
because not enough hiring is happening
and I think that is because of AI.
>> But can I ask you how unusual it is just
to take stock of 2025
>> to see the earning story as powerful and
as good as you describe it and to see
the payroll growth as bad and as dire
>> as we've seen it develop in the last 12
months. How unusual is that?
>> It is extremely unusual. U
>> so it is different this time.
>> No, but what is it's those are the four
most dangerous words in finance. This
time is different. So I'm hesitant to
say that. But I think that is correct
because you have historically John not
had a 6 to 12 month period of such weak
job growth that has then not led to
large job losses and recessions. I don't
think that happens this time because the
vast majority of the lack of job growth
is because of the lack of labor supply.
The unemployment rate from a historical
standpoint is still pretty low and I
think it stays that way.
>> There's a lot of people that hope you're
right. It's going to catch up with you.
>> Fair enough.
>> Thank you sir. Thank you very much. AJ
Raja there of Barclays on the latest
story with tech stocks and the global
economy looking ahead to 26. Let's get
you an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Joining us now is
Vonyi Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Ukrainian President
Vladimir Zalinski says he's willing to
work on a US drafted peace plan that was
developed with Russia. The proposals
include demands that Keev seed territory
and remove Russian sanctions [music]
which Ukraine says are unacceptable.
Silinski says any deal must still
[music] guarantee a just end to the war.
The US ambassador to Japan says
Washington has Tokyo's back in its
ongoing dispute with China. George Glass
accused Beijing of economic coercion and
said some of the Chinese reaction has
been quote outrageous. Glass also
confirmed the US treaty pledge to defend
Japan, including over some islands
disputed by Tokyo and Beijing.
Gap share is rising in the pre-market.
The retailer reporting stronger than
expected [music] third quarter sales.
The company's Old Navy and Gap brands
coming in particularly strong with Old
Navy generating nearly 60% of total
revenue in the quarter. Tune in to
Bloomberg at 9:45 Eastern for Lisa's
interview with GAP CEO Richard Dixon.
And that's your Bloomberg brief. [music]
John,
>> very cool. Looking forward to that chat.
Vonyie, thank you. Up next on the
program, growing divisions at the
Federal Reserve. Eventually, we are
going to be back to rates can come down
a fair amount, but in the near term, I'm
a little uneasy frontloading
too many rate cuts. Up next, Claudia Sam
of New [music] Century Advisers live
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
Down on the week, down on the session.
We're down on the week by 2.9% on the
S&P. [music] down on the session by
about a tenth of 1%. On the NASDAQ,
we're down by 0.4. Under surveillance
[music] this morning, growing divisions
and the Federal Reserve.
We've got a series of geopolitical and
policy
shocks that have come in that are
masking in my [music] in my view this
underlying the economy is pretty strong
and I feel like eventually we are going
to be back to rates [music] can come
down a fair amount but in the near term
I'm a little uneasy frontloading
too many rate cuts.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
Fed's December interest rate decision
very much in doubt a growing number of
policy makers expressing concerns over
additional rate cuts. Claudia S of New
Centry Advisers writing the employment
report for September didn't settle any
arguments of the Fed and that biases the
Fed against action. Claudia joins us now
for more. Claudia, welcome to the
program. Let's talk about that jobs
report. What was your impression of it?
Was that a strong report or a weak one?
>> It was a mixed report. I mean you
definitely saw the themes of job
creation has been very slow. It payroll
numbers were encouraging but not
encouraging enough. And frankly you know
a real warning sign in the report was
that the unemployment rate moved up
again. This is the third consecutive
monthly increase that we've seen and
that really does reinforce that the
weakness in demand is outstripping
whatever slowing down in labor supply
that we've seen this year.
>> That argument is the argument of
Governor Waller and others. Claudia,
I've heard that argument that we're
close to stall speed and we should
probably get in front of it. How
compelling is that argument going to be
on December 10th to the rest of the
committee?
>> Frankly, I don't think there's a
compelling argument on either side right
now. You know that we just don't have a
real clear picture of what's happening
in the economy. This was data on
September, right? This is months past
now. And and you can and what they're
arguing about, I think rightly so, it's
about the risks that are facing the
economy. I mean, my base case is still
that we muddle through this, we don't
have a recession, inflation comes back
down, but I am very concerned, as is
Governor Waller, about the downside risk
to employment. I can see the case also
for the risk of inflation getting stuck
above target. Right. So, that's what
they're arguing about are these risks,
and it's very hard to make a compelling
case with the data that we have. So,
they're going to go down to the wire on
this one.
>> Claudia, what's the difference if they
cut in December or if they cut in
January?
Well, so monetary policy takes time to
to work its way through the economy. So
if what we're seeing are signs of a
labor market that is slowing down to a
point that it really goes over the edge,
well, you would want to be doing those
cuts as soon as possible. You know, if
you wait until you have clarity, if the
Fed waits until it sees clear signs of
deterioration in the labor market, they
have waited too long. That's the big
risk. Claudia, they have seen signs of
true deterioration, but it's in the
lower income cohorts, and we're seeing
that pretty consistently. And it raises
sort of deeper question about the Fed.
Is it the Fed's job to try to close the
K-shaped gap that we have in the
economy?
>> So, the Fed's mandate is for the economy
overall, right? They don't they don't
pick and choose demographic groups,
parts of the country. Like, that's just
not their mandate, right? And they don't
have tools that are that finely tuned to
think about specific groups. Now what I
will say is the Fed can look at groups
that are typically marginalized say on
the labor market that can often be a
signal of a broader weakness that's
starting to build right like you know
not everybody gets hit first right and
so I think that is where they pay a lot
of attention to where things are
happening on the margins but it's not
that they can use that as a
justification or kind of target their
policy
>> claudia since the Fed is going to meet
and then six days later we get more
employment reports what do they need to
be looking at that could potenti settle
the arguments at the Fed before December
10th.
>> Right? So there there is still
information that the Fed will get before
they go into their December 10th
meeting. They'll get the JOL's data. So
they'll have another read on the hiring
rate, the layoff rate for October on the
first day of their meeting. We're going
to get the beige book. I think the beige
book could be really important for
trying to get a sense of this argument
about how resilient is demand. It's
qualitative, but it is designed to be
comprehensive, right? Right. And I think
that's one where we don't have the GDP
statistics and so we don't have these
comprehensive measures of the demand.
That's going to be very important. I
mean, they're going to keep gathering
every piece of evidence they can. What's
what is unfortunate is the piece of data
that could settle the debate at the Fed
is that November unemployment rate and
they're not going to have it when they
vote.
>> Claudia, why can't they wait? Why don't
we just reschedule the meeting? Is that
difficult to do?
>> [gasps]
>> I think they would see that as being
very disruptive. And and you know, I
think to Governor Waller's point, you
know, it is a data driven Fed, but it's
not like it absolutely must have a data
point, right? Like you you do have to
take what you have, form an outlook,
think about the risk, make the case. I
think what's just hard right now is
they're missing because of the
government shutdown, because of, you
know, these delays that are just an
unfortunate reality we have right now.
They're missing some of these data
points that would settle debate. So,
they're just going to have to work
through this and come to the best, you
know, decision they can. But I think
anything that be as abrupt as, you know,
moving the media, they're just not going
to want to go down that path.
>> Claudia, appreciate your time and your
take. Thank you for joining us. Claudia
Sandler of New Century Advisers, it's a
Fed divided with a bias to wait based on
the majority of the commentary we've
heard over the past few weeks. And
without the data, you're not going to
break that bias.
>> And they're not going to wait. They like
[music] their routine. They have tea
time in the morning. They debate. They
scream at each other. Then they release
it. [music] Fed Share JP Pal takes a big
sigh. You know, this is their monthly
routine and they're going to stick to
it. [music]
>> It's scheduled with intent though,
right? You know, when that was
scheduled, they thought they would have
the data.
>> Yeah.
>> I don't know. Let's see what happens.
Futures negative by a tenth of 1%
[music] on the S&P. Up next, Stuart
Kaiser of City, Steven Share of Pritium
Partners, and Savvy Sith of Raymond
James.
The connection between the consumer and
the labor market has never been
stronger.
>> I think it's actually going to be a
really tricky scenario for the Fed.
>> The Fed is going to maintain an easing
bias and that's ultimately what's
important.
>> It's kind of like driving in the fog a
little bit, although it's not [music] as
dense as I think some people think.
>> It's sort of a feast or famine economy.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second down
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this. The
headline this morning, no bounce. We're
down again on the S&P 500. [music]
Futures lower by a tenth of 1% following
the biggest 1-day reversal since the
tariff turmoil back in April. We're
heading towards the biggest weekly
[music] loss in 7 months. And these
moves aren't helping. Nvidia, your
single name of the morning, [music] the
single name of the last 24 hours. Nvidia
down by 1.9% today. yesterday positive
plus 5% at one point then down and down
hard.
>> Yeah, you saw the biggest intraday move
yesterday going back [music] to what we
saw in April the turmoil around the
tariffs and it raises this issue of
whether this is a fundamental concern or
[music] as a judge was saying earlier
this idea of weak hands being squeezed
out. The argument on the fundamental
side is that increasingly yes [music]
they are having 65% gains in profits and
see a pathway to $500 billion in sales
of their premium chips. However, there
is a question [music] about whether it
is worth it for some of the people who
are buying on the other end. Not the
hyperscalers, but people who are buying
with debt. [music] And then with the
weak hands, those people are saying
there still will be a rally heading into
your end.
>> Nvidia down by close to 2% so far this
morning. That's the stock story. That's
the tech story. Let's talk about the
Federal Reserve as well. Later this
morning, [music] about 90 minutes from
now, we'll catch up with Governor Myron
of the Federal Reserve. This is an
individual pushing for another rate cut
from the Fed on December 10th. He's got
a problem. The rest of the committee
doesn't have the data they need to
change their mind. And the rest of the
committee, [music] many of them are
pushing to hold.
>> Claudia put it really well. Payrolls do
not show the notable deterioration that
[music] someone like Collins is looking
for. And that same side, they do not
reinforce at this moment the stall speed
in her mind that Waller is looking for,
that Myron [music] is looking for. But I
imagine governor is going to come on
here today and say the unemployment rate
is not just 4.4%. It's 4.44%. [music]
You're getting ever so close to 4.5%.
And what happened? 6 days after the
Federal Reserve meeting, that
unemployment rate ticks [music] up.
>> That's the tug of war right now on the
committee. Headline payroll is pretty
decent, solid yesterday. Beneath the
surface, though, unemployment a concern,
continuing claims, timely data [music]
also a concern.
>> There is a sense that it's taking longer
for people to get jobs, that jobs just
aren't as available. And this isn't just
a supply side issue [music] in terms of
immigration and people leaving. It's
also a demand side issue in terms of
demand for those workers. That said, if
you take a step back, there is a real
question about the financial
transmission of monetary [music] policy
and whether that is part of a feature or
part of a bug because I I keep going
back to what AJ said. If the US equity
market declines by 30% and stays there,
[music] that will send the US into a
recession because so much of the
spending power in the United States has
come from higher stock valuations. Yes,
it [music] might be a bubble, but it has
been fueling consumption at the higher
ends and that really is what held what
has held up the economy. There is at
least one man in this administration who
gets that. The Treasury Secretary Scott
Messen and the Treasury Secretary
[music] in the last 24 hours making a
renewed push for guess what? Another
interest rate reduction.
>> Well, the president also told him it's
his [music] job to fix it or it would be
his job on the line. Obviously, tongue
and cheek. But in all seriousness, he
does want the Treasury Secretary [music]
to basically make sure the timeline maps
up for their three-prong approach when
it comes to tariffs, fiscal, [music] and
monetary policy for their economy before
the midterm elections. So, he went on on
Fox News and he's talked about the fact
that you shouldn't stop during a cutting
cycle, even though he says they're going
to blame it on the fog. The issue they
have is, of course, [music] the midterm
elections and a tremendous amount of
uncertainty with the economy going into
that. And that is why the vice president
of the [music] United States is asking
for patience from the American people
when it comes to their policies being
digested in the economy.
>> This market is not going quietly into
year end. Futures just about unchanged
so far this morning. Vicious volatile
moves in the last 24 hours. Coming up on
the program, we'll catch up with Stuart
[music] Kaiser of City with big swings
rocking equity markets worldwide. Steven
Sher of Pridium on bringing
affordability to housing and Savvy Sith
of Raymond James as airlines brace for
record holiday travel. We begin this
hour with stocks little changed as
concerns remain over the AI trade and
interest rates. Stuart Kaiser City
writing, "We remain cautiously
optimistic the US equities will rally
into year end led by year-to- date
winners as investors keep it close to
the vest." Stu joins us now for more.
Stu, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It's good to see you. You've written
about this the past few weeks and I'm
pleased you have. The shifting reaction
function of this market to incoming
information around the tech story. Can
you just sort of flesh that out for us
and explain what's behind it? Yeah, I
mean I think what's [clears throat]
behind it is is a little hard to figure
out. A lot of people are blaming it on
lack of retail participation or retail
point back. But I think if you looked
and you would add Nvidia to the list
now, but if you had started, you would
have said, you know, Meta, Palanteer,
Oracle kind of three poster children for
this in the sense that MetaC increase
capex spending materially. Stock traded
off that suggested you're not getting
rewarded for more spending. Uh
Palanteer, you know, beat numbers pretty
pretty uh decisively. Um but valuation
sentiment very extended there. kind of
stock pulls back. You look at Oracle,
you know, stock has roundt tripped a
40%, you know, rally on earnings and the
credit spreads have probably gotten more
press coverage than than they
necessarily deserve, but it's been been
a stark move, you know, wider in those
credit spreads. So, it does seem like
there is some AI [clears throat] fatigue
positioning, valuation sentiment is
already very long. Um, I I don't really
think this is weak hands being squeezed
out. I think it's where is the
incremental buyer at this point. I think
you have a lot of people that are
convinced about this theme, are invested
in the theme, but you need that that
sort of next person to come in and push
it higher. I I think the sentiment
yesterday morning on Nvidia was not how
much are we going to rally. I think
people are saying, geez, I really just
hope we hold these gains. You know, I
hope we keep this five or 6% gain. And
that just shows you the the shift in
mentality and and the shift in reaction
function to this story right now.
>> What do you think changes it back? What
can put a floor under sentiment and
shift perception of the market back to
where it was? you know, [clears throat]
it's a really high bar here because you
you can't say we haven't gotten good
headlines over the last month, right?
So, I'm sure you'll get a continued, you
know, string of announcements of deals
and spending plans and capex, which you
also got from Nvidia. Um it's hard to
see if there's like maybe it's just
going to have to be a mass or you know
accumulated critical mass of that news
that kind of pushes you through because
you look I mean even Nvidia Nvidia does
four earnings reports they do four GTC's
they do you know interquarter updates
and you get all of those from all their
peers as well. So you can't argue it's a
lack of information or or or a lack of
of bullish commentary. So I do think
we're it's a little bit of a critical
mass issue. Um some people would argue
you need to get price and sentiment a
little bit cleaned up for that to work.
Unfortunately, that would argue for
lower markets, which I'm never going to
advocate for, of course, but uh you
know, yeah, I think it's it's a critical
mass issue. There's not one big thing,
um that I can think of. Um some people
have pointed to, well, if you allow
China to kind of import some of these
chips, it opens up a new revenue stream
that's obviously geopolitically charged.
So, it's not something I would expect in
the near term, but you probably need
something like that to really change the
narrative.
>> So, you said that there isn't
[clears throat] the marginal buyer, and
I'm wondering if we can finally put this
fiction to rest of cash on the
sidelines. Has the cash on the sidelines
evaporated?
>> It certainly feels like it. I mean, if
you look at FINRA margin balances in
retail accounts, you know, they're
they're exceptionally high. You know,
cash balances, I think, in most
accounts. I think BFA had a note out on
this last week that you'll highlighted
that that those cash balances are pretty
low. Um, I think there's also perversely
a little bit of a calendar issue going
on here, which is institutional
investors have really struggled this
year. If you've have a decent year or or
you're up or outperforming, you don't
want to mess it up in the next four to
six weeks. So I do think a little bit
like any incremental risk on the
sideline is going to be very cautious
about entering this market given the
calendar year timing. So you know to
your point there may be less cash on the
sideline. I also think that cash that is
on the sideline is going to be very very
circumspect about kind of stepping in
here.
>> What's the role of the retailer here the
retail trader that has driven so much of
the volume if not necessarily the
overall dollar amount of trading. I just
wonder if there is a connection between
some of the high-f flyers I'm thinking
of crypto assets and things of that
nature and the willingness to spend
money and put money to work on the part
of the retail investor.
>> Yeah, without a doubt. I mean, our our
retail [clears throat] favorites list is
down 22% from the highs. You've seen a
significant pullback there. To your
point, volumes on the retail side were
call 16% of total. They're down to 11%
of total. There's a clear relationship
there. We can all see the chart of
Bitcoin. We know what's going on there.
So it does feel like retail has pulled
back and also that impacts I do think a
little bit the institutional investor
mentality because I think in their view
they they assume that retail was there
to sort of buy the buy the dip right if
you pull that back a little well then
again that makes institutions a little
more cautious of if they're not buying
the dip who is oh I am and and now I
it's a risk
>> hold on a second are you saying that
retail money is leading institutional
money right now
>> I don't think it leads institutional
money but you have to look at the
ecosystem of supply demand of the
markets and retail is large and was very
very active and if you pull them out
then as an institutional investor I need
to look around and say okay who are the
buyers and the sellers and what is their
level of commitment and it's at minimum
going to change how you sort of risk
adjust um the market performance
>> if individuals don't want to mess up
their book going into year end and what
we've seen time and time again this year
is that Nvidia falls the next day
everyone is stepping in to buy that gap
why is that not happening as much I
>> I think I think part of it is is retail
step back a bit. I think part of it is
the stock's massively high and
expectations are are so are so extended.
I mean if you look at EPS for Nvidia,
consensus was expecting like six bucks
of earnings back in June and then it was
seven and then it was eight and now
people are talking about 8 to 10. So I
do think you know there's always so far
you can kind of push these numbers and
again for an institutional investor this
becomes a riskreward argument and it's
if I'm already here on revenues and I'm
already here on earnings expectations
what is my incremental upside from here
if I pull back 2 to 5%. And I know
Jonathan's already asked this question,
but I want to try to get at it again. So
then, how do you get a year-end rally?
>> I think how [clears throat] do we get a
year- end rally? One, you know, incoming
data would help um you know, claims and
stuff like that. You know, that would
that would potentially be an incremental
positive there. Um otherwise, I think
you just get volatility to calm down a
little bit. You know, as I mentioned,
ret uh institutions being careful. We've
definitely seen an overshoot in the VIX.
We've seen an overshoot in implied
volatility and risk pricing. and
releasing that, excuse me, releasing
that risk premium back in the market
could help. Um, you know,
>> government taking [clears throat] equity
stakes.
>> Yeah, I actually don't think the market
would would respond too positively to
that right now. One area we haven't
talked about though is you're going to
get Black Friday, you're going to get
Cyber Monday, you're going to get a
holiday spend season. If that data looks
decent, I think that can get you there,
particularly if if continuing claims and
jobless claims kind of calm down a
little bit. But yeah, there's not a
clear sort of I need this or I need that
in the next two to four weeks to get
Markire.
>> No more questions. You're killing him.
He's losing his voice. Stuart Candra
City.
>> Get a drink, Ste.
>> I will.
>> You take a beat. All right, let's get
you an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Let's
cross over to Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. A fighter jet
crashed during a demonstration at the
Dubai Air Show. The Indian Air Force
confirming the accident and saying the
pilot sustained quote fatal injuries.
[music] We'll continue to follow the
story throughout the morning.
Bitcoin is headed for its worst month
since the crypto collapse of 2022. The
cryptocurrency has plummeted over 30%
from its record high set early October.
Institutions appear reluctant to buy the
dip with a group of 12 US listed Bitcoin
ETFs, seeing more than $900 million in
net outflows just yesterday.
Eli, Lily, and Noble Nordisk announcing
plans to start selling their obesity
drugs directly to employers. The
companies are hoping the new process
which starts January 1st will expand
access to the costly weight loss
medicines. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonyie
in about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, Manny at the White House.
>> IF ANYONE CAN SHOW A NATION BETRAYED by
Donald Trump how to defeat him. It is
the city that gave rise to him.
>> He's a communist. I don't think our
country is ready for a communist.
>> So this is going to be fun. box office
down in Washington DC. Blindex Tyler
Kendall joins us next live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> We've got a change over at Morgan
Stanley. A new Fed call from Mike Apen.
We no longer expect the Fed lowers the
Fed funds rate in December. [music]
Pretty much in line with market
expectations. Some others have got some
other views. City's Andrew Honhorse with
this to [music] say. We think the steady
rise in the unemployment rate will be
enough to encourage open-minded
officials [music]
to support a rate cut. Just how many
open-minded officials are left on the
FOMC [music] going into December 10th?
because there was something for
everybody in yesterday's report. If
you're just joining us this morning,
good morning to you all. Equity futures
on the S&P 500, negative again today.
We're down by 210 of 1% on the S&P.
[music] Very vicious moves in the last
24 hours. The biggest one-day reversal
going back to the tariff turmoil of
April. But yesterday, there was no
single catalyst for that reversal. And
that's [music] what makes this
particular moment particularly unique.
Nvidia came out with decent numbers. The
stock was up by 5% and then bang down
and down hard. The tone has been
shifting and it's been shifting pretty
considerably. It's interesting to see
that tech has actually led the decline
[music]
in all markets. You see the NASDAQ
underperforming the equal weight S&P 500
and it comes amid concerns still [music]
about the US economy and it comes amid
concerns about the Federal Reserve
cutting rates. If this was a pure Fed
rate cut bet, you would expect the
Russell 2000 to underperform and it
hasn't. So, there's something else going
on under the hood, which is the reason
why we're talking about technicals and
weekends [music] and how much the market
was up before and whether this is just a
sort of blowoff top that will then give
rise to yet another gain.
>> Nvidia down by about 11% on the month so
far. It's been a pretty tough month.
[music] The NASDAQ's down by about
seven. It's been a very difficult month
for the tech story in the bonds market
just [music] rangebound. Check out two
just between 350 360 just kind of
anchored there. Fed's going nowhere
anytime soon in the minds of [music] a
lot of people in this market. Two's
around 352, 10's around 4%. Feel like
that's been the story now for the last
few months.
>> And frankly, the stability here has
given a lot of people confidence that we
aren't going to get anything extreme
either on the Fed independent side, on
the rate cutting side, [music] or if
they are delayed in terms of the
December rate cut, they will cut again
in January. What I think is interesting
is how much the market [music] seems to
be coalesing around a view that
inflation is contained albeit above that
2% level and that ultimately the Fed
will cut rates but the [music] neutral
rate increasingly is hovering around
that 3 and 12% level. So the Fed can be
debating it. The market has voted and
neutral is 3 and a half% 3.6% according
[music] to market participants
>> still waiting to see if we get that CPI
data sometime soon. Hopefully we will.
The Canada, as you know, looks like this
decision on the 10th from the Federal
Reserve. 6 days later, a lot of jobs
data [music] still to come. Coming up on
this program in about an hour and 13
minutes, we'll catch up with this man
right here, Governor Myron of the FOMC,
who's making another push for another
rate reduction. We'll catch up with him
in about an [music] hour from now. Out
of Surveillance this morning, let's head
down to Washington DC. Manny at the
White House. If anyone can show a nation
betrayed by Donald Trump how to defeat
him, it is the city that gave rise to
him.
>> He's a communist. I don't think our
country is ready for A COMMUNIST.
>> I HAVE four words for you.
TURN THE VOLUME UP.
>> HE HAS TO COME RIGHT THROUGH this
building to get his money. And don't
worry, he's not going to run away with
anything.
>> I will not be intimidated by this
president. I will not be intimidated by
anyone.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump and New York City
Mayor Alexa Raani meeting at the White
House today. The discussion following
threats from the president to
potentially suspend or cancel federal
funding for the city. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now for more. Tyler,
just describe how we got to this moment.
What's this going to look like later on
today?
>> Yeah. Hey, John. Well, it really does
feel like a made for TV moment, though.
The stakes are incredibly high for
millions of Americans. We saw both of
these uh leaders on the campaign trail
really uh ramp up their criticism
against each other. And now Republicans
have been using Mom Donnie as sort of
the foil ahead of the midterm elections.
But there is a lot of there is a lot at
stake here. As you mentioned, President
Trump has previously threatened to
withhold federal funding from New York
City, which received $10 billion from
the federal government for fiscal year
2025 and is banking on an additional
$7.4 4 billion for fiscal year 2026.
Plus, take into account that the Trump
administration has already frozen about
$18 billion worth of broader New York
state infrastructure funds when the
government shutdown began. White House
press secretary Caroline Levit was asked
yesterday whether or not these two
leaders would discuss unfreezing those
funds when they meet. And she said that
we'll just have to see how their
face-to-face meeting goes. Now, it's our
understanding that Mayor Elect Donnie
requested this meeting with the White
House. His transition team says that
they will focus on affordability as well
as public safety as we know that this
White House has been trying to recapture
the narrative around cost. So,
potentially there could be some room for
cooperation here. I will mention I spoke
to one Democratic strategist who told us
we shouldn't underestimate President
Trump's affinity for New York City, but
of course that would be the optimistic
view because they have been ramping up
the criticism. And John, President
Trump's threats go beyond just
withholding federal funding. He still
hasn't ruled out the idea that he could
send the National Guard to New York City
or ramp up immigration enforcement rates
as well.
>> Tyler, they both ran a campaign around
affordability. Mandani wants to have
free buses. The president of United
States is talking about $2,000 checks,
dividend checks when it comes to relief
for Americans. When it comes to
affordability, are they actually that
far apart from each other?
>> Well, it depends how they approach their
policies, right? Mom Donnie, for
example, is proposing that he's going to
fund his agenda by raising taxes on the
corporations and the wealthy. Of course,
that would go against what President
Trump has been trying to champion,
including when it comes to his signature
legislation that was passed earlier this
year. So, there is a divide there, but
it is true both of them are trying to
get at this idea that higher costs are
hurting Americans. And it's been really
interesting to see how this
administration has been trying to thread
the needle around the issue because they
have to say that the economy is doing
well, but also at the same time
acknowledge that we've seen consumer
sentiment hit near record lows amid
these higher costs. So as we heard from
the Treasury Secretary and also the vice
president JD Vance, there has been this
acknowledgement that there is
frustration within the administration.
When we look at these public sentiment
polling showing that there is pessimism
about the economy and Marie, we'll see
if there is any room for them to work
together here because it is clear that
it is an agenda item at both of the top
of these leaders lists that they want to
uh tackle together.
>> Tyler, thank you. Looking forward to
this and your coverage. Tyler Kendall
outside the White House this morning.
Stuart Kai of City still with us. Stu,
things are changing. Tariff relief, the
prospect of $2,000 checks. Is there more
to come?
>> Uh, you know, we certainly hope so. I do
think a lot of um investors are actually
pretty bullish about how the you know
tax and spending bill will impact the
economy early next year. So if you're
looking for an area of bullishness it
would be we are going to get some you
know better better tax relief hopefully
early next year. Um I I think generally
speaking investors would prefer not to
have to understand how the government is
going to impact markets and and would
like them to just kind of allow it to
operate on its own. Uh but yeah, I mean
optimistically I think you're hoping you
get some kind of stimulus into the
system and maybe you're hoping corporate
America, you know, took a little bit of
a siesta during the summer amid all the
uncertainty and might kind of re-engage.
So I think that's that's your positive
spin. I'll leave the negative spin up up
up to you guys.
>> Stimulus stimulus in the system from the
one big beautiful bill or brand new
$2,000 checks which could potentially
goose inflation.
>> Uh I I think the one big beautiful bill
part is is what people are focused on.
Uh I again to your point on the
inflation side, the last time the
government tried to send money directly
to investors, it sort of didn't end well
for the Fed. So I think generally
speaking, folks would rather they avoid
that approach.
>> When you look at 2026 and the policy
uncertainty, how much does tariffs still
weigh or do you think that really was
just a 2025 story?
>> You know, I think investors have tried
to put it off to the side at this point.
You know, mostly because of the China US
stuff. I think both China and the US
kind of realize there's a little bit of
a mutually assured destruction element
to this if if it goes too far in either
direction. So the range of outcomes is
sort of narrowed to the point that
unless you go back to like October when
Trump was saying 100% tariffs again.
Unless you get that extreme, I think the
market is really trying to push this off
to the side. Obviously the Supreme Court
cases are upcoming and and that'll bring
it front and center again, but for the
most part, I think, you know, folks have
tried to kind of, you know, move this
into the tier two of market risks.
>> Well, to that point, you've seen all the
headlines with respect to potential
stimulus and potential pullbacks in
terms of tariffs and bond markets have
been just shockingly stable. I mean,
shockingly. John was just pointing that
out and I'm just wondering why that
isn't some sort of tailwind for
equities. Usually when you get stability
in bond markets that's actually a golden
blessing for uh equity for risk on move.
So why are we not seeing that this time
around?
>> It's a good question. Honestly, I've
been surprised bond volatility hasn't
moved more and also rate sensitive
sector volatility hasn't moved more. So
[snorts] the market seems to be yeah
pretty calm about that. Why are equities
up? I mean equities have benefited from
the rate cutting narrative. You
mentioned small cap before. They they've
been a cheap beneficiary. I I think the
view here kind of is, you know, we've
already priced in a a bunch of of rate
cuts from here. How do I actually get
lower rates? Well, you might actually
have to get lower rates through a weaker
economy, which the equity market's not
going to like. So, I think I think the
market benefited from quote unquote
insurance cuts into an otherwise stable
economy. And now we're at a fork in the
road. And the question is, what do I
want? Would I rather rate steady and a
sideways economy or would I rather rate
cuts with a deteriorating unemployment
situation? I think the answer there is
pretty obvious. We'd rather a stable
economy.
>> I feel like every time we've spoken to
you over the past couple of months,
you've been pretty bullish. You don't
sound very bullish right now. What
changed?
>> Yeah, I mean, [clears throat] you know,
three or four things have changed. If I
had to highlight the number one biggest
change in the last month, it would be
consumer earnings. You know, uh, you
know, Walmart, Target, Chipotle,
O'Reilly Automotives, uh, Costco. I
mean, we could probably list 12 or 15 of
these companies that have talked
negative about the US consumer. So,
look, retail's pulled back. AI has
gotten expensive. We kind of knew those
things. The Fed is a little bit in a in
a internal debate, but I think the
biggest new information has been US
consumer companies telling you about,
you know, uh spending fatigue, the
K-shaped recovery, price elasticity of
demand, I think is a term that a number
of companies have used directly. So, if
there's one thing that's changed and
changed for the negative to me, it's US
consumer earnings.
>> That and you just got back from Europe,
right? As you were saying, that will
bring you down that growth profile or
make you a little bit more negative
about things. Yeah. Well, you know,
investors there are a little more
conservative, uh, a little more
skeptical of of US, uh, AI valuations.
Um, but it's a beautiful, beautiful
region with wonderful Couldn't agree
with you more. I mean, I love it, too.
>> They've exported such wonderful people
to
>> Thank you, sir. Thank you so much.
>> It's hard to argue with.
>> I'm going to assume you mean me.
>> Of course I do.
>> Thank you, Stu. It's good to see you.
Thank you. Appreciate it as always.
Stuart Kaiser of City. It's interesting
to take stock of the year. If I told you
back in April that maybe the story
around tariffs wouldn't even be a top
three issue for a lot of investors going
into year end, you would not have
believed me. But that's where we're at.
>> You couldn't have believed you with lots
of things if you said that that would
have happened until now. I mean with
respect to uh the questions around Fed
independence and some of the moves and
the threats, the fact that there is
absolutely no consequence to bond
markets at least that have been
incredibly visible for most people.
There's so many different layers to
this. Yeah, it's sort of a been a
strange what what a strange long trip.
It's been
>> been pretty crazy. Still another month
to go. We're down by about a third of 1%
on the S&P this morning. Up next, Steven
Sher of PR Partners on how the rental
market can help the housing crisis.
Plus, Danny has your morning movers.
Nvidia and other tech giants continuing
to drag down this market. Nvidia this
morning down by more than 2%.
[music]
Down on the session, down on the week,
down 5% from the all-time highs at the
end of October this morning. We're
negative again by about a third of 1% on
the S&P. On the NASDAQ 100, down by 0.7
on the week. On [music] the S&P, we're
down by close to 3%. As we count you
down to the open and bell, about two
hours to go. Let's get you some morning
[music] movers with Danny Burgerer. Hey,
Danny.
>> Hey, John. no bids are holding or really
even materializing for the tech stocks
that had that huge reversal yesterday.
Nvidia, that's still down 2.4%.
Then Oracle, the poster child for
widening spreads on its debt, also down
just under 2%. AMD, again, one of the
chip makers, also down 1%. [music] So,
it continues to be a painful tech market
this morning. One of the ironic things
though is that while tech and AI related
stocks are doing really poorly,
retailers are doing well. It's kind of
the reversal of what we've seen in
months past and that has to do with
earnings. Yesterday was Walmart. Today
it is GAP that's outperforming up 4 and
a3% after it raised its guidance thanks
to the success of all of its brands but
really a lot of celebrity and various
collaborations. Finally, the other
painful part of this market is crypto
down 7%. Bitcoin is this morning below
81,000. So all of these cryptolink
stocks also in a lot of pain. Strategy
down 3 and a.5%. Riot nearly four.
Marathon Holdings down 1.6%. The
existence of some of these treasury
digital asset treasury companies adding
another dynamic into this market may be
selling even more making the uh pain in
Bitcoin even more acute. John
>> Danny, thank [music] you. Thanks for the
update. The latest for some single names
out there to track what's happening in
crypto and big tech. On our radar this
morning, one of our top stories,
European leaders rejecting key points
for a peace plan floated by US and
Russian envoys. Under the 28 point
framework, Ukraine would seed large
chunks of land taken by Russia while
lifting sanctions on Moscow over time.
Elsewhere, a major streaming shakeup on
the horizon with offers coming in for
Warner Brothers, Discovery. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg that
Netflix, Comcast, Paramount, Sky Dance,
all submitting bits ahead of the
November 20th deadline. And finally, Fed
Governor Steven Myron reiterating his
stance for more aggressive rate cuts,
saying, quote, "It is incumbent upon us
to move policy closer to neutral levels.
We'll catch up with him in about an hour
from now and he has got an ally going
into that meeting. This headline just
crossed in moments ago. Let's bring it
up. New York Fed President John Williams
saying this in prepared remarks. We
still see room for a near-term interest
rate cut. His view on things this
morning. Off the back of that, we're
down to the front end of the curve. We
break 350 349 on Tuesday this morning.
Down about four basis points. Underlying
inflation continues to trend downward.
post tariff inflation back on track to
2% in 2027. That is a core member of the
committee, a core ally of the chairman
of the Federal Reserve, John Williams,
making the case that we're still
open-minded about cutting interest rates
on December 10th.
>> And really pointing to the labor market,
saying, "My assessment is that downside
risks to employment have increased as
the labor market has cooled while the
upside risks to inflation have lessened
somewhat. So really taking a look at the
fact that even though they have cut uh
cut benchmark rates significantly, they
haven't seen a commensurate tick up in
expected inflation over the long term.
The key argument of a lot of the people
who'd like to cut next month
>> on the inflation point. He says
underlying inflation continues to trend
downward. But there's an asterisk absent
any evidence of second round effects
emanating from tariffs. So basically, we
have to maintain what we're seeing right
now with companies not passing on the
full breadth of the tariff impact, which
by the way is still being debated right
now in the Supreme Court onto consumers
for it to continue to have down.
>> Futures reversing just a little bit,
just turning slightly positive on the
S&P 500. We're up by not even a tenth of
1% in about an hour from now. We'll
catch up with Governor Martin to get his
thoughts on policy going into that
December meeting. Turning to
affordability, mortgage rates rising for
the third consecutive week as high
prices and weak demand weigh on the
housing market. Joining us now is Steven
Sher, co-president of Prettyium
Partners, an alternative asset manager
focusing on real estate. Steven joins us
for more. Stephen, good morning.
>> Good morning. Good to be with you.
>> Box office down in Washington DC. The
president, Mayor Elect Mani in
conversation talking no doubt about
affordability and what we can do to help
people get on the housing ladder in this
country. Can I get your thoughts on
where we are and what you think needs to
change?
>> Well, I think the mayor has certainly
put an issue on the table which I think
is quite relevant. The question
ultimately are the policies that you put
in place in order to address it. From my
perspective on housing, you have two
choices. On one hand, you can address it
with credible policy that could uh bring
more housing into the fold because we're
running with a deficit about 3 to four
million homes relative to where demand
is. Or you can expand the definition of
uh of housing in the context of uh how
you fulfill the American dream and
include renting which is obviously where
we are involved. Um it affords many
people who either can't afford a home or
are disincined to invest in a home as a
long-term investment to rent in a
neighborhood that is uh uh better than
the one they would otherwise afford as a
home buyer. And so renting has become, I
think, a credible opportunity, a more
affordable opportunity. it rentals are
40% cheaper uh like for like relative to
a home and it gives people who either
can't afford or are disincined to buy at
the moment an opportunity to live in a
community with good schools, low crime
and really put uh their family in a good
position.
>> People, as you know, are squeezed out.
Many of them don't want to rent. They
want to own. As you say, that's part of
the American dream. And it's so much
more than that to a lot of people, too.
It goes beyond the United States. I see
this in the UK in a massive way as well.
Some people believe that large scale
asset managers like yourself are part of
the problem. Can you talk me through why
you think you're part of the solution?
>> Yeah, I mean we hear that. Um but the
reality is uh in the numbers uh
institutional owners of homes in this
country are less than 1% of the total
housing stock and we're less than 4% of
single family units that are available
for rent. And so I think the assertion
that we are somehow influencing or
manipulating that uh would be misguided.
In fact, in terms of landlords, small
landlords, so families that own a half a
dozen to a dozen homes are a
significantly higher component of uh of
uh lessors or uh landlords than our
institutional holders of homes. And so I
understand where the rhetoric uh comes
from and how it's sourced but the
numbers bely you know that I would also
tell you that from a predium point of
view we like others in the industry
invest an enormous amount of capital in
the housing stock that's inherently good
for America and for us uh extending
credit to homebuilders and developers is
yet another avenue again to bridge this
affordability question by putting more
homes as regional banks you know
withdraw from that proposition. ition.
>> Your resume is fascinating heading into
this type of discussion. You were
previously the CFO of Herz uh or CEO of
Herz, excuse me, from 2002 to 2022 to
2024. Previously the CFO of Goldman
Sachs. It gives you a real range in
terms of the change in consumer
behaviors. Can you talk about housing
and the idea of the American dream being
to buy a home, how that's shifted over
the past couple of years? Well, as I
said, the the cost of renting a home is
40% less like for like than to own a
home. Almost 55% of new household
formation last year came by way of
rental. And I think it's important to
understand that while owning a home is
definitionally part of the American
dream, renting has become a very viable
alternative again for two groups of
people. One that cannot afford to buy a
home and one that's disincined. This
runs to the question of consumer
behavior. At the moment, if you look at
the dashboard that the consumer would
consider, their wealth is higher just by
virtue of their 401k. We could debate
whether there's a bubble, but at the
moment, they feel wealthier.
The job market is softer, but we're at
or near full employment, so people have
a job. Prices are high, but inflation is
well off its high. So, you would think
the consumer would come at this
emboldened to buy a home or to invest
for those that can afford. [snorts] The
reality is consumer sentiment is
decidedly negative, as negative as it
was during the financial crisis. So,
we're seeing people keep their hands in
their pocket. They're not making that
investment in a home. The marginal buyer
is becoming a marginal renter because
they can rent in a community that is
better uh than where they would
otherwise afford a home. and they simply
don't want to make that investment. And
I think while the home again plays a big
component piece in people's definition
of their own economic success,
demographically we're now in a place
where people have many ways in which
they can accumulate wealth. It's not
just in the equity of their home. These
are all considerations I think the
consumer is taking as to whether they
buy or they don't. This is increasingly
a policy issue as John was pointing at
and one reason why a number of people on
the Fed say that there is evidence that
the uh economy is weak is because of the
housing market. Stephen Myron will be on
in less than an hour. Fed governor who
has made that argument and the goal to
bring down mortgage rates by lowering
benchmark rates. You recently had a
study where you talked about the amount
that mortgage rates would have to go
down to create parody in terms of
affordability between renting and buying
and it means that they would have to be
cut pretty much in half. How feasible do
you think it is for Fed rate cuts to get
us to where we need to be in terms of
the backup of mortgage rates to equalize
the market a little bit more?
>> I mean, it's unlikely. Um, Predium has
put out uh a chart where picture tells
an awful lot and we look at what has to
happen as you say to mortgage rates so
as to create par between renting and
owning. There's no world in which in the
near term rates are going to get cut in
half. And so you'll continue to see that
imbalance. If you look at, and you'll
have your guest on later, [snorts] the
forecast is for rates to sort of drift
lower, but only drift lower and not come
down materially. So you're going to have
high interest rates, high mortgage
rates, which are going to continue to
weigh on the overall cost of owning a
home. Uh, and so I think it's unlikely
that we will see that. much as things
will be stable and they'll drift and
lower interest rates are better for the
industry, you're not going to see that
quickly as an impetus to get people back
to buying a home.
>> Stephen, how are you thinking about if
Mayor Mum Donnie is able to get through
rent freezes?
[snorts]
>> Well, I think it's unlikely that he
will. Um, we do not own homes in New
York City, but as a resident of New York
City, I obviously watch carefully at
what's going on. As we started off this
conversation, I think the Marillect is
on to the right point which is
affordability is a very big issue here
nationwide in places like the UK as we
as we had discussed. The question
becomes what are the policies to address
it? I don't think freezing rent is going
to solve the problem in New York. What
developer wants to invest capital with
[snorts] the notion that their return on
that capital is going to be capped or
frankly capped at a return that simply
doesn't satisfy their bogey for return.
So that policy is not going to work.
Instead, I think it would suit the mayor
to think about ways in which he can
collaborate with developers. For
example, the city sits on an enormous
number of vacant or underused lots. Is
there a way in which they engage
developers with low lease costs on that
for an extended period and make a trade
where you could lease for a hundred
years plots of land in the city to a
developer and then ask that developer to
make concessions on rent? Those are some
of the things the Marillec could do.
>> When you think about renting, where in
the United States right now is the best
bang for your buck because New York City
rents are at records.
>> Yeah. Well, I think in terms of uh
absolute cost, there are cities all
across the Sunb Belt that are less
expensive than New York. What we're
seeing right now is a resurgence in
interest in the Midwest and the upper
Midwest. We're seeing a lot of people
move into places like Columbus and
Indianapolis and Kansas City, and we're
seeing rents start to pick up from our
business. But those areas, including
those in the sunb belt from Arizona
through Texas and Florida, still remain
more affordable than they do in the
major cities, including New York City.
>> Stephen, it was good to hear your
perspective. Thanks for being here.
Great to be here. Thank you, sir. Thank
you very much, Steer of Preium. Let's
give you an update on news worldwide and
some market moving news as well with
Vonnie Quinn. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Yep. New York Fed President
John Williams just speaking and saying
he sees room for a near-term interest
rate cut. Williams saying downside risks
to employment have increased while
upside risks to inflation have eased and
that underlying inflation continues to
trend downward. Fed Governor Steven
Myron, by the way, on surveillance at
8:30 a.m. Eastern.
Four men have been indicted on federal
charges in a plot to export Nvidia chips
to China and Hong Kong. One of the
defendants is a CTO of an AI company
based in Virginia. The other three
defendants were born in either mainland
China or Hong Kong. They are facing a
maximum 20 years in prison.
Ukraine President Vladimir Zilinsky
along with European officials rejecting
key points of the peace plan floated by
US and Russian envoys. Under the 28
point framework, Ukraine would seed
large chunks of land to Russia. It would
also cap the size of Ukraine's military
while lifting sanctions on Moscow over
time. [music] And that is your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Avani, thank you. Thank you very much.
Let's add to that story. Blindberg's
Ollie Krook joined us now from Brussels
for more. [music] Ollie, good morning to
you, buddy. What's going on and why is
this so difficult to get across the
line?
>> Yeah, Jonathan. I mean, this is the 28
point plan that really arrived kind of
like a bombshell here in Brussels um
over the last sort of 24 hours when we
actually got all of the 28 points
spelled out by the Trump administration.
The starting line, the beginning point
of the negotiation between Ukraine and
Russia has landed very, very poorly
indeed for the Ukrainians and for
Brussels. And as a consequence of that,
now European leaders are reacting to it.
We've just had a meeting between the UK,
France, Germany, and Ukraine. And they
have rejected. And rejected is a sort of
strong term. We should say they've
rejected parts of it. But that's really
they've gone very diplomatically with
this saying that they really agree with
the United States in their diplomatic
efforts. They would like to see this
advance further, but they want certain
things to be sort of red lines. One of
those things is that the line of contact
to serve as the starting point for any
understanding and that the Ukrainian
armed forces remain capable of
effectively defending Ukraine
sovereignty. That is a quote from the
Germans after that call from those four
leaders. And they are reacting to points
21 and 6 of the Trump plan. The first of
which would basically now donate the
rest of the Donbass region that is not
fully uh controlled by Russia to Russia
in this agreement as it is envisioned by
the Trump administration. And of course
the second point there point 6 is that
the Ukrainian military would be capped
at 600,000 personnel which is a
meaningful reduction in the number of
forces that the Ukrainians have right
now. And that is sort of the Ukrainian
side of this conversation. But Jonathan,
I think where European leaders are going
to react in a much more sort of
aggressive way, in a much more startled
way is there's a lot of these things
within uh these points within uh points
3, 7, 8 that put restrictions not just
on the future of Ukraine, but what the
NATO organization is allowed to do,
whether or not NATO is allowed to deploy
troops within Ukraine in the future,
whether or not NATO is able to consider
adding Ukraine to its numbers in the
future. And in fact, one of the points
here on point three is that says that
NATO will not expand any further. And
from the European perspective, and
Jonathan, we've talked about this since
the very beginning of the Trump
administration in their negotiations on
Ukraine. The Europeans are not at the
table when it comes to ending this war
in Ukraine. And increasingly, they do
not seem to be at the table in creating
the future architecture for security in
Europe beyond Ukraine. Ollie with the
latest. Ollie, thanks for this. Joining
us from Brussels breaking down the
latest negotiations, this story from
Reuters. Let's get into it. Ukraine is
facing greater pressure from Washington
to agree to the framework of a US
brokered peace deal with Russia than in
previous negotiation efforts including
threats to cease provision of
intelligence and weapons according to
two sources familiar with the matter.
Speaking to Reuters, the words of
Reuters this morning.
>> So right now this is just a threat and
what I see the administration
potentially trying to do is carrot and
stick approach for both of these
countries. But yes, this peace plan that
Oliver was just talking about was dead
on arrival for Zalinsky and for the
European Union. cutting off intel and
weapons. That would be a much more
aggressive approach threatening for
Ukraine. And I imagine it's a deep
debate within the administration because
yes, you have individuals like Steve
Wickoff who worked on this plan with
Carl Deitriv, but at the same time, you
have really big supporters of Ukraine
like Secretary Marco Rubio.
>> Rudy newsy last 15 minutes or so. We'll
get you up to speed on the price action,
too. close to session highs on the S&P
500, up by 0.5% as the New York Fed
President, John Williams, kind of
reopens the door to a discussion of
cutting interest rates on December 10th.
Up next on the program, gearing up for
holiday travel.
>> Thanksgiving will be great.
>> Okay,
>> we we listen, we know the importance of
Christmas and Thanksgiving and the
holidays. That's our Super Bowl and
that's what we rehearse and plan all
year long. We're going [music] to be in
really good shape.
>> We'll get the view of Savvy Sith of
Raymond James in just a moment. Live
from New York City, [music] you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
This is a franchise market. We'll see if
this move holds. We'll see if this
[music] sticks. But in the last 20
minutes, a turnaround. Equities positive
by 0.5% as the New York Fed president,
the highly influential John Williams,
just reopens the door to a rate cut. And
that conversation for December [music]
10th, futures up across the board on the
NASDAQ up by 0.4% on the Russell this
morning [music] up by 0.8. Under
Savylvanas this morning, gearing up for
holiday travel.
>> Thanksgiving will be great.
>> Okay,
>> we we listen, we know the importance of
Christmas and Thanksgiving and the
holidays. That's our Super Bowl and
that's what we rehearse and plan all
year long. We're going to be in really
good shape. The good news is that, you
know, the outlook is really strong and
the the holidays will be a good a good
test of that. We receive the return
traffic from from Christmas and New
Year's looks really good. So, I see no
reason to think that this thing is is
going to slow down.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Airlines, travelers, and the FAA gearing
up for what's expected to be the busiest
holiday travel season yet. Savvy Sith of
Raymond James writing, "We expect strong
Thanksgiving holiday travel." Savvy
joins us now for more. Savvy, before we
get into Thanksgiving and next week, can
we take stock of where we are right now
and how much we've recovered and how
quickly from what took place in the last
few weeks?
Hey Jonathan, good morning. Um, you
know, I think we've uh we did see a hit
especially when you saw the DOT directed
cuts um especially from a demand
perspective. I think that kind of hit
demand. You saw TSA throughput fall uh
as well with those cuts. But we've seen
a strong kind of a good recovery here in
the last few days as things have kind of
gone back to normal and encouragingly I
think you know it hasn't really touched
that uh holiday travel uh demand. Sevia,
a lot of people are looking to the air
travel space to try to get a sense of
the consumer, and we've seen that it's
been an imperfect read, but a real-time
read on exactly what sentiment's been
like. Given the fact that uh the Fed's
Williams, New York Fed's Williams
talking about potentially cutting rates
next month and the idea of a softening
labor market, are we seeing any signs of
a similar read through from the rhetoric
of the airlines or any of the sales
forecasts that they've come out with?
Yeah, we're not seeing anything yet uh
from that perspective. You know, things
are recovering. The airlines did get hit
more than some other areas of the
economy earlier this year when you had
that heightened uncertainty. So, I think
there is probably a little bit of
catchup happening as well here um from a
kind of a travel perspective. So,
nothing impacting that yet. And I
suspect if there is going to be kind of
any impact on demand, it's probably
going to be in 2026. talk about the
airlines costs which have gone up pretty
significantly. Savvy, how much are they
able to pass these along to consumers?
>> Yeah, there's been a lot of kind of over
time over the last kind of few years
there's been a lot of labor costs, a lot
of uh you know supply chain costs that
have come in. Uh but actually more
recently it really has been fuel. If you
think about it, fuel is about a a fifth
to a third of airline costs. again just
in the last month fuel is up 7% versus
uh where it was in the third quarter. Um
so in the holiday periods I think
airlines are going to be able to capture
that. Not a lot of time to reset the
prices here necessarily uh given how
close in these uh increases are uh but
in the off peak periods it is tougher to
pass through. So we do need a strong
consumer for airlines to be able to pass
this through.
>> Sammy, who's in the strongest position?
And you're not allowed to say Delta. I
want best of the rest. Who's in a
strongest position right now? Yeah, I
mean it you look the big four are in a
really good position. Obviously the
legacy carriers, you know, United,
Delta, American, they have a lot more
premium offerings and uh and therefore
and a lot more kind of corporate
exposure. Um and therefore, you know,
less price sensitive travelers, so they
should be able to kind of pass through
uh costs a lot easier. Operationally, I
think everybody's doing a good job here.
>> Good to hear, Savvi. Thank you, Sabi.
Sith there Raymond James. Good to hear
going into next week and a very very
busy travel period in this country. If
you're just joining us, welcome. Check
this out. So, equities up, big move, a
reversal of the losses from earlier on
this morning. Futures positive by 0.6%.
Of these words coming from the New York
Fed President John Williams, who's
making the case, saying, "I still see
room for a further adjustment in the
near term to the target range for the
federal funds rate." When we started
this show, there was a 37% chance of a
rate cut in Fed funds futures uh come
next month. Right now, it's 63%. That is
how much the expectation for a Fed rate
cut next month went up after New York
Fed President John Williams made his
discussion where he said he is seeing
upside risks to unemployment and
potentially labor pain and he's seeing
downside risks to inflation. Really
reiterating the dovish standpoint. I
also think this was interesting because
he's taking questions right now and he
said clear communication can limit
market disruption. Is this the clear
communication that everyone stop
freaking out? We are continuing our rate
cutting cycle and we will be cutting in
December. That's my question.
>> I don't know who's freaking out. I mean
chairman Pal started this right. It's
far from a foregone conclusion in the
last news conference. He wanted things
kind of 50/50, didn't he?
>> Well, clear communication from whom?
Because a lot of people I mean Beth
Hammock has come out and clearly
indicated that she wants to keep rates
where they are. Everyone has a clearly
communicated view that is completely
different from one another and that's
what the market's grappling with.
>> But not all Fed officials are created
equally. It's a difference. It's very
different for me hearing this from
Williams.
>> Yeah, Williams top in mind without a
doubt. He's at the core of this
committee. Very influential alongside
Chairman Pal. You wouldn't expect
Williams to vote differently to Chairman
Pal. Let's put it that way.
>> Which is the reason why you're seeing
the move in the markets and interesting
that stocks are rallying so much on this
shift. That doesn't seem like that big
of a deal. December, January
>> to your bonus this morning down by two
basis points 351. Some debate about what
near-term means of course is it December
or next year we can get into that in the
next hour. Ora Hoffman Vardi of UBS
Global Wealth Management Gil Lauria of
DA Davidson.
>> I don't think this is a bubble.
>> The market is still going to keep
wanting some kind of proof. I would look
at it as a race to try to be in the
lead.
>> This will be a viable moment.
>> Momentum has been such a strong
strategy.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> What an end to the week. Live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
Good morning from our audience
worldwide. The third hour of Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now and your
price action looks like this. Following
the biggest 1-day reversal going back 7
months, equity futures this morning
bounced by 0.5% on the S&P on the NASDAQ
up by a third. In the bond market,
yields down across the curve. Twos 10,
30s, twos down two to 35075. [music]
Off the back of this, the words of the
New York Fed President John Williams
opening the door to a conversation about
rate reductions on December 10th.
>> This market feels like an unsatisfied
king or an unsatisfied toddler, saying,
"Give me a reason to buy. give me
anything because right now getting 65%
gain in profits just isn't enough. The
fact that Fed will Fed uh that New York
Fed [music] President John Williams is
coming out essentially opening the door
and endorsing the idea of a rate cut as
soon as December and talking about the
deterioration in the labor market is the
thing that this market is looking for
and people are buying it across the
board. The bond rally really speaking to
[music] what we're seeing in equity
futures
>> and the fact that he is saying he views
monetary policy right now. We got the
September payrolls report yesterday.
[music] we're not going to get the
remainder of the data till after they
meet. But he views monetary policy right
now restrictive. [music] And if you view
it as restrictive, you think that
potentially you need to take another
cut. [music]
So we're going to hear from we already
heard from him and now we're going to
hear from Governor Myin this hour on
this program and they're going to really
be leaning into the fact that they think
it's restrictive. Unemployment rates
moving up. So why would you [music]
leave December without making this cut?
>> 28 minutes away, 8:30 Eastern time,
Governor Steven on this program live on
Bloomberg Surveillance. He's got some
company pushing for interest rate cuts.
>> So, here's the real question in in my
mind, and I'm watching the Fed uh Fed
funds futures really [music] price in a
greater chance of rate cuts next month.
I really can't get over the fact that
the chance of a rate cut next month just
doubled [music] on what we heard from
John Williams just moments ago. Now,
we're seeing a 65% chance of a rate cut
from 37% when we started the show. So,
it seems like more than a co a toy cost
to uh coin [music] flip toss uh that we
will get a Fed rate cut next month. Is
that enough to really lift the spirits
of this market? What difference does it
make if it's a December 25 basis point
rate cut or a January 25 basis point
rate cut? What does that tell you about
sentiment in this market and how
marginal the buyer is and what they need
to really [music] step in? To me, that's
the bigger takeaway given the fact we
already knew there were doves. We
already knew that there were Hawks. If
they cut 25 basis points in December,
great. If not, they would do it in
January.
>> Fragile fragile 24 hours. Everyone's
just a little bit on edge going into the
Thanksgiving holiday next week. Things
just need to settle down just a touch.
Coming up [music] this hour, Ora Hoffman
Charlie of UPS with stocks tracking
towards their worst week in 7 months.
Gil Laura of DA Davidson remaining
bullish on Nvidia despite the recent
pullback and the Fed Governor Steven
Marin as he continues pushing for more
aggressive rate cuts. That conversation
8:30 Eastern time. We begin this hour
with stocks aiming to end a roller
coaster week on a positive note. The
team at UBS Global Wealth Management
releasing their outlook for next year,
writing continued strong capex and
growing evidence of AI monetization will
fuel further gains for AI link stocks in
26. We expect the S&P 500 to reach 7700
by the end of next year. Or Huffmani of
UBS joins us now for more. Or good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Let's get to that price target. What's
the road towards 8K? So what we believe
is that the macro headwinds that we were
facing in 2025 are actually turning into
tailwinds in 2026. We have that dual
engine of both fiscal and monetary
policy stimulus in particular in the
first half of next year. We have of
course um on the one hand now the rate
cuts typically hitting with two to three
quarters of transmission. Then we have
the refunds from one big beautiful bill
and we also have more investments into
infrastructure and defense. So that's a
very supportive fiscal environment. And
then we think inflation is also going to
be rather contained. We have three
disinflationary forces in our mind that
we are seeing. One, we are going to
anniversary the tariffs in April. And
then we have what we think is going to
be slower wage growth because of the
slack in the labor market and then also
finally shelter inflation coming down.
So with that uh benign backdrop to
inflation, we also think there may be
one more rate cut in the books for
December. But again, if not December,
then January, and ultimately, as you
said, it's the terminal rate that
matters and not necessarily a one-mon
delay.
>> You just offered us the ingredients for
a year- end melt, but it's not
materializing. How would you describe
what's developing before our eyes right
now in the last few days, the last few
weeks?
>> Yeah, I think the key question right now
is really about AI and in our mind, the
AI story has significantly changed. It's
no longer about compute, it's about cash
flows. And at the latest in the third
quarter Microsoft earnings, we learned
that some of the big private companies
that are offering intelligent services
are actually still heavily lossmaking.
And the question is, will they generate
enough cash flows to pay for all these
commitments to infrastructure? And at
the same time, what we are seeing is
that the benefits of AI are going to
actually be acred by companies that are
using AI. And I think that warrants a
new playbook on AI investing. So does
this really mark the shift? I mean is
this the turning point that you see a
new playbook as coming into play for
lack of a better word uh as people look
to who's taking on this new technology
and deploying it in a way to increase
their efficiency? Yes. If we if we look
just at the last three years we're
almost getting close to the three-year
anniversary of Ted GPT. Um we have seen
that those AI7 those enablers the NVIDIA
the Broadcoms A&Ds microns and then also
the hyperscalers that they have roughly
um gained about 10 trillion in market
value over three years yet the AI users
haven't really appreciated as much and
so for us this is now the opportunity to
pivot and invest in those companies that
use AI for advertising for coding for
automation of business processes and uh
we particularly think that the
healthcare sector is a really
interesting way uh to actually play AI.
>> So does this mean that you're going to
see that rotation out of some of these
big big cap large cap tech companies and
into things like healthcare, things like
financial sector, things like Walmart as
we saw yesterday as they renamed
themselves as a tech company or do you
see this as potentially everything goes
up or the index goes down but you see
some winners in the bunch? At the
minimum we think or we suggest that you
diversify that AI monetization risk a
bit. Um the math can work of course
there's some path to that that math
working but at the same time there is a
lot of uncertainty. All these private
companies really going to make it and I
think for us this is an opportunity just
broaden out our exposure to AI and and
rethinking how we want to invest in
this. We don't think AI is a bubble. The
technology is not a bubble. Technology
is real. The ROI is tangible, but we
want to now again expand our investment
universe of how to capitalize on this
new technology.
>> When you look at capitalizing on it and
you look at the adopters you're
interested in, say healthcare, other
industries, does that mean job losses?
>> Not necessarily. I think it could also
be of just doing more of what we're
doing or doing it faster and more
costefficient. You know, in healthcare
in particular, the cost of bringing a
drug to market has risen exponentially
over the last few years and decades. And
so AI can bring down that cost curve
from clinical trial or drug discovery
all the way to clinical trials. And I
think this is a big opportunity uh for
that sector to to drive better operating
efficiencies.
>> We've had a few of these conversations
now. Yeah. And we often spend about 10
minutes with a guest and I would say
about 80% of it is on the stuff we just
discussed and hardly any of it's on
Federal Reserve and interest rates. Now
we've just seen the market with a big
turnaround this morning at least and and
Lisa has pointed out how viciously
things have changed in terms of
expectations. Makes me wonder just how
relevant you and the team think monetary
policy might be to the outlook and how
relevant it is for stocks going forward.
>> No, we think it's relevant. We actually
use three perspectives in our equity
framework which is macro which the Fed
of course plays a big role in. We use
also the bottom up fundamentals. So
valuation right that's a big part of our
process but also these structural trends
like AI electrification and longevity uh
which for us determine asset prices. So
for us all three perspectives do matter.
Sometimes the market decides to focus on
certain areas uh of these three lenses
and I think as an investor you have to
stay attuned to where the market is
currently focused and pivot uh but all
three are very relevant. Of course, over
the last 3 years, it's been all about AI
and in particularly about AI enablers.
>> It has been totally dominant. That's for
sure.
>> Which is a reason why it's hard to
understand whether that hurts or helps
the Fed's case to cut rates. Because
ultimately what people are saying is if
the Fed cuts rates more significantly,
that helps the valuation story uh
proposition, the multiple story for AI
stocks. But if they don't, then what
does that do for the rest of the
economy? I mean, there's so many
questions here, which is the reason why
you see the existential angst for a lot
of these FOMC members about igniting a
bubble in financial markets in order to
help cater to the weakness that they're
seeing in the labor market. This is a
conundrum that they're going to have to
grapple with, but they only have a dual
mandate.
>> You've got 25 pencil in for December,
>> another rate cut.
>> We have two more rates cut canceled in.
And really the reason, as you said, is
the weak labor market and all the
alternative data that we have been
seeing. We now obviously have to wait
until December 16th uh to know more
about the labor market, but the data
suggests that the labor market is still
weak and we think we have two more cuts.
>> It just seems ridiculous.
>> It doesn't need to be this way. Just
change the date.
>> It really doesn't. And I think if you do
it immediately, it won't be it won't be
seen as political. It'll just say we
want the most data we can have before we
make a decision. I think everyone would
welcome that.
>> Ask Governor Mar in 20 minutes time.
Let's move the date. Move the Fed
meeting. Or this is great. It's good to
see you. Thank you. member Charlie there
of UBS Global Wealth Management with an
update on stories worldwide. Let's get
you the Bloomberg brief. Let's cross
over to Vonyie Quidd. [music] Hey
Vonyie.
>> Hey John, thank you. The US threatening
to cut provision of intelligence and
weapons to Ukraine in order to try and
get it to agree to the framework of the
peace deal [music] it brokered with
Russia. Reuters reporting the US wanted
Ukraine to sign the deal by next
Thursday. This news following a report
earlier this morning that Ukraine and
its European allies rejected key parts
of the plan.
The Congressional Budget Office is
slashing its estimate for US fiscal
savings [music] from tariffs by $1
trillion. The nonpartisan agency now
estimates tariffs will cut US deficits
by
>> [music]
>> $3 trillion over the next decade.
The Trump administration is announcing
new oil drilling operations off the
coasts of California and Florida. The
plan proposes six offshore lease sales
between 2027 and 2030 to boost US oil
production. Lawmakers from California
and Florida are warning it could harm
coastal communities [music] and
ecosystems. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Up next, the Morning Cause.
Plus, we'll catch up with Gil Lauria of
DA Davidson remaining bullish on Nvidia
despite a volatile, very violent move in
the last 24 [music] hours. That's up
next. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
[music]
>> September and October, we've been
calling it silly season. There was no
reason for stocks to rally 30, 40, 50%
[music]
in just 2 months alone. So, a lot of
this is just a recalibration out of that
silly season into more rationality, but
it doesn't suggest that maybe today is
the the ultimate low. We still think
that we could see some volatility.
>> We've been spoiled up and to the right
since the lows of April. I get it. We've
been very spoiled. That was Cameron
Dawson [music] of New Edge Wealth. And
now we've had a 5% correction on the
index level from the record high of
October. Everyone always says they want
to buy the dip and then you get the dip
and everyone gets very sensitive about
buying the dip because you've seen five
and you worry that another five is going
to follow.
>> Yeah. And you see the [music] dynamic
shift. You see suddenly all of the
pattern trading kind of fade away. All
the technical trading fade away and you
start to wonder what else is behind it,
especially when there isn't a reason to
uh necessarily sell off. And as Cameron
said, you always buy when it feels worse
to buy. So does it feel the worst to buy
right now if it's only been a 5% draw
down? I think that's what a lot of
people are asking [music] themselves.
>> We've got to turn around this morning.
So, equity futures are positive by 0.5%.
You'll see bond yields inching just
[music] a little bit lower. And if you
check out the chart, you'll see a move
developing about 30 45 minutes ago. Off
the back of these comments from the New
York Fed President John Williams, making
the suggestion that maybe a near-term
interest rate cut is on the table. So, I
get it. What is near-term? I think most
people think near-term is December
[music] 10th.
>> Yeah. which is a reason why you're
seeing the chances of a Fed rate cut
really surge in terms of next month's
Fed fund futures. But you raised the
point about fragility [music] and I
think that that is the most important
point. The idea that people listen to
what Fed New York Fed President John
Williams has to say. Yes, he is a more
important [music] Fed member that that
could cause such a huge reversal in
market expectations. Gives you a sense
of how jittery and lacking conviction
people in the [music] market are right
now.
>> More on the Federal Reserve in 15
minutes time. We'll catch up with
Governor Steven Myron of the FOMC at
8:30 Eastern time. [music] Let's get you
some morning calls. First up, Goldman
raising its price target on GAP to 29
following positive results, seeing
broad-based momentum in its Old Navy and
GAP brands. That stock is up 6.5%. Your
second call from Beimo raising its price
target on Walmart to 125, seeing
continued strength and consistency in
its results. And finally, Raymond James
resuming coverage of Nvidia with a
strong buy rating, viewing the company
as the center of the AI industrial
revolution. Even that stock is turning
around now, higher by 0.7%.
Let's stick with that name. The stock
struggling to gain ground in the last 24
hours after closing more than 3% lower
yesterday. Bloomberg's Mandep Singh
joins us now for more. Mandy, a
turnaround on that name, but what a
vicious move in yesterday's session to
see an 8% swing off the back of decent
earnings on a massive, massive market
cap. Mandy, take a step back. What was
your reaction yesterday at the close?
>> I mean, look, the numbers were great.
Everyone realizes inferencing demand has
been off the charts and Nvidia has been
a major beneficiary. You know, one other
thing that happened this week was the
Google Gemini launch. And everyone sees
what Google has accomplished with $90
billion in capex this year. Not only
have they trained a new model, they're
generating cloud revenue, they are
deploying generative AI across their
family of apps in a big way. So that
efficiency when it comes to the data
center scale is coming into play now and
everyone can see the proof point in
Google's models and how it's running the
infrastructure far more efficiently than
an open AI which wants to raise 1.4
trillion. So the next question is what
is open AI going to do with that 1.4
four trillion because OpenAI right now
is trained entirely on Nvidia and that's
where I think everyone is looking at the
ecosystem and saying Google has their
own models they have got got their own
chips they're not reliant on Nvidia and
they can do so much more in terms of
efficiency which is I think raised some
doubts but there's no doubt that
inferencing demand is off the charts and
that's why Nvidia is doing so well
>> Mandy what do you think explains the
shift in perception of market
participants in the last few weeks I
would go back the last few months or So
we've seen several occasions of things
that would typically be rewarded being
punished. Whether it's capex spend,
whether it's agreements between a set of
tech companies, whether it's decent
earnings like we saw from Nvidia. What
do you suspect is behind that change?
>> I mean right now all these LLM companies
except for Google are subsidizing the
cost of deploying generative AI.
Everyone is underpricing uh and they are
not even earning you know an incremental
gross margin. So everyone is questioning
how long can you keep subsidizing the
cost of generative AI and when will you
actually start thinking in terms of cash
flow or you know hitting scale and uh
look I get it they want to acquire
customers but 1.4 4 trillion is what
spooked the market first and then the
sec circular financing and all these
things kind of played a part and then uh
open AAI trying to diversify away from
the Nvidia Microsoft stack and going
towards AMD and Broadcom I think that
sed further doubts in terms of what
their ultimate strategy is.
>> Mandy with the latest. Mandy saying
thank you sir of Bloomberg Intelligence.
Gil Laura of DA Davidson remaining
bullish on Nvidia reiterating his buy
rating and price target of 250 on the
stock. Gil joins us now for more. G,
welcome. I think we still got to reflect
on what happened yesterday. How is this
name suddenly looking so fragile?
>> Well, I think for the last couple of
years, uh, Nvidia has driven the market
and yesterday something happened around
10:45 Eastern and and the market started
driving Nvidia. Something that really
has nothing to do with Nvidia. The
results were very, very good. And more
importantly, back to the conversation
you've been having so far this hour,
Microsoft, Amazon, and Google. Nvidia's
main customers have all the customers.
They have all the business customers
through OpenAI and Anthropic. They have
most of the consumer customers as well.
And what they told us a couple of year a
couple of weeks ago is that they're
seeing an acceleration in demand. So
they're able to build out this compute
infrastructure
for contracts that are already
committed. So their customers which
again is pretty much every other company
and most consumers are booking demand in
advance and willing to pay for it. So to
be precise here Amazon, Microsoft and
Google are generating very good returns
on their investment in terms of the
build out of the data center. It's their
customers that are not yet generating
returns but are booking so much demand
in advance that it looks like they feel
they believe that they will generate
those returns. So the results from
Nvidia reflected that acceleration in
demand. They were very good. That's why
the stock opened up. Something else
happened yesterday at 10:45 Eastern. I
imagine we'll find out. Something like
uh some a liquidation of a fund.
somebody selling the AI portfolio as a
whole. It had little to do if nothing
with Nvidia.
>> That said, Gil and and I hear you about
sort of the technical selling or this
question about whether there were some
weak hands that were flushed out
yesterday. There is this broader fear
about Nvidia and you've seen it in the
stock performance even leading into the
earnings that the earnings were not able
to assuage that yes, people are willing
to buy all these chips, but whether they
are able to without borrowing a lot of
money is another question. You talk
about how there is this expectation of
the profits to follow some of the
spending, but you see the likes of
OpenAI as you yourself said yesterday is
the classic example of fake it until you
make it. Why do the accounts receivables
not concern you? The idea that this is a
huge bill and the cost of it is leaving
some looking elsewhere to try to raise
the money.
>> Yeah. So, so that's it's a good
important question to start asking
ourselves what's healthy and real and
what's unhealthy and not real. So, I
talked about the healthy part. Amazon,
Microsoft, Google, they are buying all
the Nvidia chips they can get. By the
way, that does include Google. While
Google is using its TPUs extensively,
and by the way, the TPU is really the
only competitive product in the market
to Nvidia. They're using it extensively.
They're still buying as many Nvidia
chips as they can to help provide those
to their customers. That's all healthy
behavior. The unhealthy behavior you're
mentioning has to do with startups
borrowing money at very high rates,
making promises they can't keep. That's
the poster childs for that are OpenAI
and Coreeave. That really and and
amongst each other making these big
promises, borrowing a lot of money to
build data centers. That part of the
demand isn't real. Now, importantly,
it's not even necessary. If those two
didn't exist, Microsoft, Amazon, Google
would still be buying the same amount of
chips, if not more. But we do have to
keep pointing to the bad behavior to
Nvidia giving a dollar to Cororeweave.
Cororeweave borrowing $9 and using eight
of the 10 to buy Nvidia chips, then
having to pay a dollar of interest rate
and only getting 50 cents of of profit.
That's unhealthy. That needs to stop.
You mentioned Nvidia's receivables and
inventory that that has come up
yesterday. But if you look historically,
we are still at this these numbers are
just so big that if you look at them as
a ratio, so re um the accounts
receivable as a ratio of revenue is
actually within the historical range.
Inventories is is a percent of cost of
goods sold within the historical range.
So there's not a specific concern about
those numbers for Nvidia. It's more a
concern about are we letting bad
behavior enter the system which the main
indicator of that is how much debt is
fueling the data center buildout. As
long as it's cash on hand from the big
players and their cash flow that's
healthy behavior that they're putting
behind real demand. If we start lending
to upstarts to build data centers that's
the risk.
>> Gil we just have about 30 seconds here.
uh what do you think the blow up of some
of the unhealthy players is going to
look like for the healthy ecosystem?
>> So the shareholders and debt holders of
those companies are going to get wiped
out but the big companies that I keep
going back to Microsoft, Amazon, Google,
they'll end up buying assets at pennies
on the dollar. So they're going to win
anyway.
>> Gil, thank you sir. Gil Luri there of DA
Davidson. It would certainly take the
pressure off them to spend as much as
they're spending because if they feel
like they're facing existential risk
right now, you wipe out some of the
upstarts, the new competitors, maybe the
pressure starts to come off just a bit.
>> Yeah. You hear about the likes of Meta
trying to reserve uh data center space,
not because they have the need for it
right now, but they want to prevent,
say, open AI to get it. In the meantime,
you wonder about some of the bonuses
that we're hearing for some of the AI
talent as well, whether that also might
have to come down if the competition
isn't as fierce. Although if you're in
the industry, you know, good luck to you
and we're all jealous.
>> NASDAQ futures this morning hed by 0.4%,
a turnaround this morning off the back
of comments from the Federal Reserve.
We'll get into it in just a moment with
Fed Governor Steven Murin as he
continues pushing for more aggressive
rate cuts. Plus, Danny has some of the
morning movers for you this morning.
Shares [music] of in it higher on the
back of stronger than expected earnings
results. That stock is up by 3.9%.
>> [music]
[music]
>> The opening bow 60 minutes away. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 look like this.
We are positive now by 0.4% 4% on the
S&P. On the NASDAQ, we're [music] up by
0.3. Moments ago, in the last hour, the
New York Fed President John Williams
just reopening the door a touch to
cutting interest rates on December 10th.
We'll get into that in just a moment. As
we count you down, let's get you some
single names, some morning movers.
[music] Here's Danny Burgerer with more.
Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. This morning, Warner Brothers
Discovery, it's up 610 of 1%. You have
the bids coming in from Comcast, from
Netflix, from Paramount. They're all
still in this thing. [music] Warner
Brothers has wavered just how much it's
gaining off the back of that. But the
fact that they're all still bidding is
obviously a positive sign for them. Only
Paramount though out of all of them
would buy the entirety of the company.
Other earnings we had into it. The
financial services company reported late
yesterday. One of the best performers in
the S&P 500 [music] in the pre-market up
3.8% this morning. They had a beat
across all fronts saying that their AI
agent specifically for their QuickBooks
has had a lot of adoption by small and
medium-siz [music] businesses. Uh,
finally rounding things out this morning
in terms of earnings, there's Ross
Stores, another retailer alongside Gap,
TJX, Walmart that is reporting really
strong earnings. Again, this is a
discount store. So, make of that what
you will. They raised their guidance.
Shares are up 3 and a half% [music] with
the CEO saying that they have strong
momentum heading into the holidays.
John,
>> hey Danny, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Check out Danny alongside Matt
Miller in about 30 minutes time to guide
you towards the up and about. Turning to
the Federal Reserve, traders [music]
quickly reassessing bets for a December
interest rate cut.
>> The downside risks to employment have
increased as the labor market has
cooled. The upside risks to inflation
have lessened somewhat. Therefore, I
still see room for further adjustment in
the near term to the target range for
the federal funds rate to move the
stance of policy closer to the range of
neutral.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
New York Fed President John Williams
pushing back against hawish commentary
from the FOMC and Wall Street. Now
[music] pricing in better than 50% odds
the Fed will cut rates in December. Fed
Governor Steven Murin was the loan
descent for a 50 basis point rate cut at
last month's FOMC meeting. And Governor
Marin joins us now for more. Governor
Marin, good morning. Good to see you
once again. Thanks for being here.
>> Thanks for having me back.
>> We got to start with the labor market.
Your reflections on what we saw
yesterday. Does it lean one way or the
other?
>> Yeah, I mean I think the implications of
yesterday were obviously dovish and if
anyone was on the fence I I would hope
that this would move them in the
direction of of cutting. I mean you saw
the unemployment rate edged up a bit. uh
you know you saw some other indicators
like an increase in in in permanent
layoffs. Uh you know those are
indications that uh the labor market has
been affected by restrictive fed policy
and given the outlook for inflation
there's not really much of a need to be
as restrictive as we are
>> and yet on the committee we have push
back almost immediately after that Fed
Governor Michael Bar had this to say I'm
concerned that we're seeing inflation
still around 3%. Inflation's closer to
three than it is to two. What do you
make of that argument? How persuasive is
it? It's not persuasive to me and I'll
tell you why. All of the inflation
excess, sorry, almost all of the
inflation excess is a mirage. It's not
indicative of supply demand imbalances.
And so, for example, if you look at the
housing market, right, market rents have
been running at about 1% for a couple
years. Measured inflation in the index
is actually much higher than that
because it takes a really long time for
the index to converge down to where
market rents are. That's a statistical
artifact, right? That's an artifact of
the statistical measurement process.
It's indicative of a supply demand
imbalance that was there in 2022 2023
monetary policy works with lags. It has
to be set now for 2027.
So when you look at the housing data,
right, you see market rents running
about 1% for a couple years. There's no
supply demand imbalance there. We should
not be setting policy for 2027 based on
a supply demand imbalance that existed
in 2022 or 2023. That doesn't make any
sense. There's other things too like
portfolio management services which
confuse quantities for prices. This
stuff is all wellknown. If you look at
market-based measures of inflation,
they're much closer to two than they are
to three. So, I think that the excess,
the overage is a mirage, and it's a
mistake to ask people to lose their jobs
because of quirks of the statistical
measurement process.
>> And you've got to put out new forecasts
on December 10th as well, which is going
to be complicated by the fact we've had
limited data more recently. How relevant
do you think the calendar actually is?
Because I'll offer you the perspective
on Wall Street at the moment. It goes
something like this. The meeting is on
the 10th. You don't get the data until
the 16th. The Fed's kind of constrained
by that. They can't do anything. What's
your perspective on that?
>> Yes. So, as I said a moment ago,
monetary policy works with lags. It
would be much easier if it hit the
economy immediately, but it doesn't. It
works with lags. So, you have to set
policy based on the forecast. So, the
data matter in so far as they affect
your forecast. It doesn't make sense to
be setting policy for where the economy
was 3 or 6 months ago. We we should be
setting policy based for where the
economy is going to be 12 to 18 months
from now. And so, if we have data, it
gives us the ability to update our
forecast. But the lack of data doesn't
mean that we don't have a forecast. We
did have a forecast. All it gives us is
opportunities to falsify our forecast.
And there hasn't been anything in the
data, in the news, in media stories, in
private sector data, alternative data
that's available to us that would make
us think that the forecast is somehow
nullified and and there's been a big
shock to it. So, if anything, all the
information that we've gotten the
interim since since the since September
FOMC has inclined to the dovish side.
You know, we got weaker uh inflation
than people expected and we got uh a
higher unemployment rate than than folks
were expecting. So all of that
information should push one in the
dovish direction.
>> But there are still Fed officials that
are looking for more data and they have
said they're data dependent. They want
that insurance that they're cutting
right now and it's the right time.
Potentially the unemployment rate might
be moving up to 4.5% on December 16th.
Would you be in favor of just moving the
me meeting if it meant others felt more
reassured to cut interest rates in
December?
>> So uh you know I haven't really thought
about that and it's not a conversation
that that it's not a conversation that
I've been part of. Um I mean I agree the
meeting dates seem kind the meeting
dates seem kind of arbitrary. Um but at
the same time there's a lot of there's a
lot of stuff that gets done as a result
of those meeting dates and you know
people have have investments and and and
contracts and other decisions that are
tied to the to the to the timing of the
meeting date and I don't know to what
extent moving those dates would be
disruptive for all that. So I it it's
something that I'm not I'm I'm not I'm
not sure about. But the this ultimately
comes down to the question of data
dependence is what you do when you don't
have a forecast or when you don't have
any confidence in your forecast. Right?
We should be forecast dependent, not
data dependent. Being excessively data
dependent is to be too backward-looking.
And if you're too backward-looking, you
necessarily are going to have the wrong
policies.
>> Neil Dutter writes in. He says the only
question that matters for you is will
you descend for 50 if you believe it
means not being able to push through a
25 basis point cut.
>> Yeah. So abs absolutely not. Uh I would
absolutely vote for for a 25 basis point
cut if my vote were the marginal vote.
Uh there's there's no there's no
question about that. I I you know to to
to do otherwise would be to cause real
harm uh to to the economy uh for for
purposes of vanity and and that's not
who I am.
>> Going into next year talking about the
forecast of what's going to happen. A
lot of economists who come on the show
expect a reaceleration on the backs of
the tax refunds and some of the other
stimulative measures that could come
early next year. How do you factor that
into your forecast for ongoing weakness
in the labor market and the consumer?
>> Yeah, so I think that uh you know I have
not been a uh what I what I would think
of as excessively uh pessimistic on on
the economy. Um, I do think policy is
restrictive and I do think that it's too
restrictive uh and we don't need to be
and the longer we remain restrictive the
greater the chances that we are the
source of an economic downturn which we
should not uh seek to be. Um I think
that many of the uh many of the factors
that'll be kicking in over the next 12
months that might be supportive of GDP
growth um are things that necessarily
don't have hawkish implications for
monetary policy because they affect the
supply side. And when you think about
things like relaxing uh regulations and
I think that that has been going on at
actually an impressive an impressive
pace. Uh these are things that push out
the supply side of the economy and
therefore don't necessarily create a
demand excess of supply. Right? Monetary
policy should be tight if demand is an
excess of supply and if you push out the
supply side of the economy then that's
not something you worry about.
>> There's a duration mismatch here though.
the idea that if you reduce regulations
and you allow people to build supply, uh
that it takes a longer time than say if
you give people $2,000 checks right up
front that they can spend immediately or
if they get a rebate that's a lot bigger
from their tax uh from the tax filings.
How do you factor in that timing
mismatch? Would you look through any
bump up in inflation next year from both
stimulative measures as well as the
price increases that we're excite we're
hearing from a lot of retailers that
they're going to pass along? So, you
know, I wouldn't look through I wouldn't
look through bumps from uh from from uh
checks like that, right? Uh you know, I
don't think that I don't think that
you'd be able to. However, a policy like
that has been hasn't been formalized. It
hasn't been introduced. We don't know
the parameters of it. Uh it's too early
to sort of think about basing a forecast
on on on something like that. What we do
know is that the is that the labor
market data have been coming in not as
strong as we'd like them to be and that
policy is too restrictive. Governor, if
we can stay on inflation, do you know
when we're going to get some inflation
data? When are we going to get that?
>> Because we've heard about the payroll
schedule. I haven't really heard
anything about the CPI schedule. You've
got any indication whatsoever of when
it's coming?
>> Yeah, the BLS put it out on on its
website this week. I think that we're
not going to get the uh November uh CPI
data until after the next uh FOMC
meeting.
>> So, we've got to wait for that, too.
>> We've got to we've got to wait for that.
>> Did you see that, Lisa?
>> Yes, I did. I saw that that we have to
wait and it's not clear exactly when
we're going to get it. But there's a
real question going forward about when
we might get
>> but we don't have the dates yet.
>> But we don't have the dates.
>> No, the dates are the dates are on the
website. Yeah, the BLS has a has a has a
list of the release dates on
>> the payrolls one, but I've missed the
CPI one, which doesn't just make it an
even stronger case just to wait and have
this meeting when we've got all this
data. Why is it that we have to wait so
much longer for it? Governor,
>> wait for the data.
>> Yes. Well, because the government
shutdown introduced a whole number of
snags into the data collection process.
And so that those snags mean extra time
to collect the data, extra time to
process the data. People have a log jam
of work to get back to. I mean, we just,
you know, sort of spent several years
talking about uh talking talking about
bullhips from supply chains, right? And
you know, the demand gets gets pulled in
at once. And when you have a government
shutdown, all the government employees
aren't working and they come back to
work and they've got a ton of work to do
all at once. And so, you know, we have
those uh those bull whips in uh in
government data right now. And uh you
know, if that were a market, you'd see
some inflation in the price of data, but
uh it's not a market. So,
>> forgive me for coming out with the
hawkish hits, but we got another one in
the last 24 hours, too. And it came from
Beth Hammock. Lowering interest rates to
support the labor market risk,
prolonging this period of elevated
inflation, and it could also encourage
risk-taking in financial markets. Can we
finish on that last point? Risk-taking
in financial markets. How excessive is
it and should it be on the radar of the
FOMC?
>> Sure. So first of all, as I said before,
the excess of inflation uh is a quirk of
the statistical process and it is a
mistake to ask people to lose their jobs
as a result of a quirk of the
statistical process on financial
markets. Uh you know, look, I think that
lots of things affect financial markets.
Uh tax policy does, regulation does,
technology like artificial intelligence
does. It's a mistake to conflate the
stance of the the status of financial
markets with the status of monetary
policy. Right? Even when you look at
something as a a financial market as as
deeply uh connected to to to monetary
policy like interest rates, we've lived
through periods of of conundrums, right,
where passing through of the Fed funds
rate into longerterm interest rates was
confusing to people. So, it's just a
mistake to do a one for one mapping of
these things. And I think that when you
look at financial conditions, the
financial condition that matters most
for the real economy is and remain has
been and remains housing. Right? And
this is an area where financial
conditions are not tight. Sorry. are not
loose. This is an area where financial
conditions are are are still quite
tight. Going out getting a mortgage, you
know, this is this is not something
that's not not a financial condition
that I would consider to be excessively
easy. Um, and so I think it's I think
it's a mistake and I think it's also a
mistake, as I said before, to ask people
to uh experience uh job losses uh
because you think the stock market is
too high. I don't know what the right
level for the stock market is. Um, and I
think that it's it's a very challenging
question to be able to answer credibly.
And to say that we need to create job
losses uh in order to sort of restore
the stock market to some level that we
think is more reflective of fair value
is just not a policy view that I hold. A
lot of people have come on this show and
said that right now the Fed is stuck
between a conundrum of the K-shaped
economy where you have people at the
upper end who do are doing just fine and
are supporting consumption and people in
the lower end who are experiencing a
lack of wage gains and they're
experiencing those job losses more
significantly. How concerned are you
about sort of your dual roles of trying
to help prop up uh and and prevent some
of those job losses from really
escalating while at the same time
potentially cutting rates would
exacerbate that K-shaped only exacerbate
uh what you're seeing with respect to
the wealth divide.
>> So uh
Congress didn't task us with addressing
all social problems in the world
inequality one of them. They tasked us
with tackling aggregate uh maximum
employment and and stable prices. And so
therefore the right policy to take is to
stabilize employment and prices. Um and
that's the policy that's the policy that
I support. I do think though while
discussing the subject of inequality, it
would be much worse for the people at
the lower end of the income distribution
if the unemployment rate continued to go
up as a result of our policies. Uh
that's not something that they would be
that they would welcome and it's not
something that I would welcome either.
Governor, I was with the president this
week in the Oval Office and I asked him
about the Fed interviews. He says lots
of names. We may go the standard way.
Quote, "It's nice every once in a while
to go politically correct." Out of the
names that we know that are being
interviewed, who is politically correct?
>> Uh, you know, I don't really know the
answer.
>> Well, you worked for the president, so
you understand how his mind works. Do
you think it means someone that is
currently on the board like a Governor
Waller or someone that's very close to
him and your former colleague Kevin
Hasset?
>> Yeah. So, I mean, it should be pretty
clear that I just always say what's on
my mind and therefore I don't even know
what politically correct is. Uh, so I
don't even know how to begin addressing
that. Uh, you know, but look, I don't I
don't make
>> a little too politically correct right
now, actually.
>> Am I? I've never been accused of that
before. So, hey, [laughter] you know,
I'm I'm happy to have a first.
>> Governor, very diplomatic. It's good to
see you. Thanks for dropping by.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. The
Fed Governor Steven Myron with an update
on stories worldwide. Let's get you an
update with your Bloomberg brief. Here's
Vonnie Quinn with more. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. Gap shares rising
in the pre-market. The retailer
reporting stronger than expected third
[music] quarter sales, a sign that it's
celebrityfueled marketing and revamped
inventory are helping [music] to lure in
customers. Stay tuned to Bloomberg at
9:45 a.m. Eastern for Lisa's interview
with Gap CEO [music] Richard Dixon.
A bidding war underway for Warner
Brothers Discovery. Netflix, Comcast,
and Paramount Skydance, all submitting
offers for the company. Comcast and
Netflix are most interested in the film
and TV library, while Paramount is
willing to buy the whole company,
including cable channels [music] such as
CNN and TNT.
It was a defensive showcase in Houston
yesterday as the Texans defeated the
Buffalo Bills 23-19 in Thursday Night
Football. The Texans relentless pass
rush sacked Bills [music] quarterback
Josh Allen a careerhigh eight times and
forced three turnovers as Houston
improved to six to five on the season.
And that is your Bloomberg brief. John.
[music]
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Appreciate the
update. Up next, we'll set you up for
the day ahead. Plus, we'll get Chris Lua
his thoughts of Evercore ISA from New
York City. [music] You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
[music]
>> The implications of yesterday were
obviously doubbish and if anyone was on
the fence, I I would hope that this
would move them in the direction of of
cutting. The labor market has been
affected by restrictive Fed policy and
[music] given the outlook for inflation
there's not really much of a need to be
as restrictive as we are.
>> That was Fed Governor Steven Mah and
Wayne on monetary policy looking for an
interest rate cut on December 10th.
[music] If you're just joining us he's
not alone in his camp the New York Fed
President John Williams almost there
just opening the door to an interest
rate cut [music] in the near term.
Equities bouncing off of that. We're up
by 0.5% on the S&P on the NASDAQ up by
0.5 also up by8 [music]
on the smalls. The Russell 2000
advancing as we count you down to the
cash open. Here's the trading diary for
the week ahead. At 10 a.m. Eastern time,
you consumer sentiment. Then at 3 box
office time, New York City Mayor Alexa
Raani visiting President Trump at the
White House. Looking ahead to next week,
PPI and retail sales. Wednesday, another
round of jobless claims. And the Federal
Reserve releases [music] its beige book
on Thursday. US markets of course to
close for Thanksgiving. Looking ahead to
the Federal Reserve and the next [music]
meeting, Krishna, the vice chair and
head of central bank strategy at
Everore, writing the case for a December
rate cut [music] is to complete a
minieries of risk insurance cuts to
guard against the risk of more serious
labor weakness. Krishna joins us now for
more. Krishna, welcome to the program.
How compelling is that Riker argument
for next month?
Look, I think it is as compelling as it
was in September when Powell uh and the
Fed leadership group indicated they
thought three cuts were appropriate.
Right. Since then, uh nothing has really
changed. Of course, we have not had as
much data as we would have liked to
have, but such data as we have confirms
this the assessment before, which is
that the labor side is soft. Not yet
weakening in a more scary way. But of
course, the whole point of an insurance
cut is to prevent that from happening.
While the latest available inflation
news is on the more constructive side.
So not mission accomplished, but I think
still uh reasonable grounds for
delivering the third rate cut, the third
insurance cut that Pal pencled in in
September. And I think Williams today is
the tell that that is likely where
they're going. Krishna, could you uh
elaborate on that? As Amay was saying
earlier, not all Fed members are created
equal, and New York Fed uh President
John Williams has a premier spot in the
trifecta of leaders that tend to exert
influence over the committee. And yet,
we were talking about how Feder J.
Powell has sort of lost control over the
committee. Why do you think Williams is
the tell considering the disperate
opinions that we've heard coming out of
the board?
>> So, you're raising some very interesting
points there. Let me let me sort of
unpack it quickly. First of all, I've
said very forcefully that I think that
this, you know, understandable,
difficult debate fight over a December
cut has been in real danger of turning
into a crisis of governance at the Fed
with the committee polarized between
doves and hawks both on economic
fundamentals and in response to
pressures on Fed independence and Powell
really struggling to make policy the way
the Fed normally makes policy, which is
the chairman sort of crafts a central
view that most people can sign up to.
But it remains the case that the votes
are just about there for either a cut or
a skip admittedly with multiple descents
likely uh depending on which way pal
wants to go. So that then takes us to
Williams today. As you rightly pointed
out the Fed has a leadership troka of
the chairman vice chair at the board
that's Jefferson and New York Fed
president who's Williams. and Jefferson
and Williams could be thought of as
Powell's principal lieutenants in
running the Fed. It would be extremely
abnormal, I would say, a professional
malpractice if one of those members of
that tro career would come out with a
statement like the one Williams
delivered today without getting it run
past and approved by the chairman first.
So, you have to read this at the bare
minimum as saying that Powell hasn't
given up on a debt cut. And I would say
more than that, I think it's legit to
read this as saying the leadership is
leaning for a cut.
>> This to me is exactly how the market is
reading it and is really illuminating in
terms of also the comment from Fed uh
from New York Feds William saying
clarity of of communication is key for
monetary policy transmission. Why do you
think that this fracture has occurred?
Do you think it's because of something
about Fed Chair Powell's leadership or
do you think it's because simply there
is this uncertainty around who's going
to lead next year?
I think there's actually still enormous
goodwill and respect towards PAL within
the FOMC and I think actually in just
the last 24 hours or so, you've seen
people on both sides of the debate among
that wider group of Fed officials. Just
uh back away a little bit from making
categorical statements about what they
will or won't do in terms of their vote.
And I feel that that's intended to give
pal a bit more space to try to figure
out which way he wants to call this. But
the larger point is that the clock is
running down on Powell's tenure. it
wraps up in May and the committee itself
is being I think has become more
polarized than I've seen it in many many
years because of the coming together of
these genuine differences on the
economic merits the political pressures
on Fed independence which push some
people more doubbish but push many
others more hawkish to try to stand up
for the Fed's independence and of course
this process of you know looking yes
Powell is a guy everyone respects trust,
but he's not going to be there for very
much longer and so folks also starting
to look forward to the next round of
this, the next era.
>> Is it actually more polarized or is it
just we're getting more insight into it
because more Fed officials are willing
like Governor Myron just now to come on
and talk about where they stand?
No, I I think it is more more polarized
and the distinction I would draw is
between uh folks talking about their
views on the economy, their views on
inflation, their views on uh you know on
labor, on the degree of restraint in the
labor market versus offering what look
awfully like strong views in terms of
where they're going to vote at the next
minute meeting, right? You know, the way
that the Fed normally conducts business
is it's not like the Bank of England,
which has nine members and you know, the
policy that wins is the one that gets
five to four votes. Yeah. The way the
Fed normally makes policy is it's a
chairman-led process where the chairman
tries to craft a path for policy that
most people can sign up to and those who
have concerns address those mostly in
private with the chair try to figure out
if they can negotiate something that
they can all live with. dissents are
rare uh and very rarely sort of
pre-announced in large numbers in
public. What we've seen over the last
few weeks is very um abnormal. I would
argue very unhealthy with a lot of folks
staking their claim in the ground
publicly not working with PAL to try to
find a center ground here.
>> Chris, we got to go. Thank you, [music]
sir. Chris Naga of Ever. And a quick
announcement from me. I'm taking some
time off to support Mrs. Pharaoh on the
arrival [music] of Baby Pharaoh. Woohoo!
So, I'll see you in the new year. As I
say every year, you are [music] the most
intelligent audience on the planet, and
I'm looking forward to making center
2026 with you in the not too distant
future. From New [music] York City this
morning, good morning. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.